---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 104: Return to Taliesin"
date: 2018-03-25 09-0800
publishDate: 2020-08-17 21:00:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

The merchant tells us outside the town's "nothing but daemons."

We talk to the brother and sister again, where the brother's excited about "prickleboar meatballs." Phi's a bit excited too. But the meat hasn't tasted good nowadays...

The sister mentions what actually happened to Aball, and thinks the village would have been saved if the Shepherd came earlier...

**Velvet:** "...Right..."

A girl thinks this time's "a rotten time to grow up in."

Down the steps, a woman says that "it's been three years since there've been [...] cats around." Taliesin's got no more cats... :frowning2:

The land here's also starting to shift...

A woman mentions the power of the Shepherd and his then-unseen malak three years ago...

A vet's weeping for the death of Niko... :frowning2: Velvet thinks that this vet was Niko's boyfriend.

A bard's reciting a song about the Shepherd.

The weapons merchant now has **Spinach** and **Fresh Milk** for sale!

The man near the fish stall thinks the weather's still fine, even when there's fog!

Eizen and Eleanor agree that Melchior also cast the fog as well. That man is tricky...

We talk to a promoter, but it's Eleanor, not Magilou who approaches him to start a show.

Eleanor wants to meet Majelu, that's why.

The elderly promoter overhears Eleanor about Majelu, mentioning Valta's great skill for his art, though he worries about Valta teaching Majelu. Valta never makes "compromises in his art."

Now the show starts!

Magilou and Eleanor call themselves the "Bienfu Keepers!" Eleanor plays the straight person in the act.

This is a bit funny...

Then they get to the part where Magilou mentions setting her clothes on fire because it was very cold...

Eleanor now gets into her serious business mode. She would have been a very upstanding censor.

Magilou tells her that the fire joke's a joke.

**Eleanor:** "Crime is not a joke!"

Magilou "gives up, for good!"

The promoter asks if "the duo's for real?"

We get **new outfits** for Magilou!

<a name="2"></a>

---

Inside the bar I speak to the Bloodwing agent to get our rewards for defeating those code reds!

Upstairs, a young man wants to have a girlfriend "like the Lady of the Lake." Nabgure *Mrfgvevn* ersrerapr?

Inside the sanctuary now, where the woman asks the girl about Hyland.

The soldiers around here ask for additional help from the Abbey regarding Perniya. The priest wrote to them, but the Abbey doesn't think Eastgand's important. The soldiers are in shock at the Abbey's neglect of Eastgand.

The man outside the sanctuary mentions that Taliesin might make a "Shepherd's Day." So the Shepherd saved Taliesin first, huh?

Magilou mentions that the Shepherd's hometown was Aball.

**Man:** "Not being able to save Aball was a terrible agony for the Shepherd." No kidding!

But the man mentions that Taliesin wouldn't have been saved if he saved Aball...

So the Shepherd's Day also mourns the loss of Aball.

**Velvet:** "That's right... lives lost can never be brought back." :frowning2:

I play a bit of Flag Fetcher...this game's more easier than the one in Beardsley. I win a new geoboard after beating the time record!

From a woman, I learn that the cats also got infected with malevolence. That's why there are none in Taliesin anymore.

Looks like the Abbey's leaving Eastgand alone...

From one of Aifread's crew I also get a new Class 4 Zone location: **Serpent Isle.**

Indy Jones would not love that place.

Eizen's getting in the conversation. The pirate's creeped out by the snake woman monster inhabiting the island...

Benwick's surprised by the therions Velvet's brought back. Benwick is not a dog person (ur naq Zvxyrb jbhyq trg nybat). The poor guy got bitten by a dog when he was young...

Velvet tells him not to worry and let them bite her.

Benwick asks Velvet if she's alright.

**Skit:** Phi takes it upon himself to take care of Orthie and Russ. The dogs don't like Velvet since she killed Niko... :frowning2:

Bienfu wants Orthie and Russ to be his servants!

Technically, we only have seven if we count the dogs as two separate therions.

Rokurou suggests to Phi to leave the dogs to Kamoana, since she used to own one.

Velvet gets flashbacks from that night when she sees them...

Bienfu makes a little "joke" about the Abbey having "dogs".