---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 143: Taliesin Again"
date: 2018-04-29 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-04-02 23:00:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4) \| [**Part 5**](#5)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

The vet, Niko's boyfriend, Lachen, asks for lilacs from the florist since he's visiting Aball... :frowning2:

But he's moving on...

Velvet explains to Laphicet that lilacs mean "a treasured memory." Lachen loved Niko so much...

A bard's playing festival music from Aball...

The cats are back in Taliesin...

There's a Bloodwing agent there on the steps of the sanctuary. News is that an exorcist praetor was bested by a pengyon. That must be either Jude or Milla.

The Bloodwing agent mentions that the pengyon had "artes of earth, water, fire, and wind" on her side. That's Milla.

**Bloodwing Agent:** "This pengyon sports red eyes and a golden coat. They call it '**Goldipen**.'"

She's in the Figahl Icecaps and the Bloodwing guy warns us that "Goldipen is...an ominous creature that signals the end of the world."

**Magilou:** "Why would you say that? Oh, now we **have** to check this out!"

Laphicet deduces what the Bloodwing told us.

**Magilou:** "I've seen a lot of things out there, but never anyone who has mastered all four elements. Excluding myself, of course." Magilou's never met the Avatar, has she?

Rokurou thinks she might help the crew, or it might be a trap, as Magilou assumes.

Eleanor thinks she might be associated with the awoken Empyreans.

Eizen's about to deliver a message to Jude, but Velvet tries to stop that. But he persists...

After speaking to people in the sanctuary (one mentions a wandering prince from Hyland), an old man at a bench mentions how war has taken more lives than daemonblight. True, and that humans start these wars. He's more concerned about that than the daemonblight.

<a name="2"></a>

---

As we go down the steps to the bar, there's a couple talking...

The kids mention Zaveid!

Laphicet suggests asking them about Zaveid. Eleanor starts asking them.

Spring Breeze Ben, the father, sounds familiar...

Ben mentioned that Zaveid kidnapped him and the family!

The wife, Saliph mentions how he had them sent to his place where three children and Theodora are...Theodora?

Arwell, one of the kids, mentions that Theodora is Zaveid's girlfiend. So they took them in...and he took Ben and Saliph and asked them to cook something for the kids...

Arwell, Burd, and Foo enjoyed the meals Ben and Saliph made...

Ben and Saliph mention they lost their only child from a daemon attack... :frowning2:

**Eleanor:** "From a kidnapper to a savior then."<br/>
**Saliph:** "Until they came along, we'd never even realized that malakhim have hearts just like people do."

Laphicet asks about Theodora.

Theodora was well-loved, but Ben tells us she vanished one day.

Rokurou finishes his sentence, saying Zaveid went off to find her. The dragon at Aldina Plains is Theodora!

So Ben, Saliph, and the children moved to Taliesin...

**Ben** explains Zaveid's nature: "rough and tumble, but [...] a good man at heart."

They now live in the Spring Breeze House.

<a name="3"></a>

---

Inside the tavern, a man asks what happened in Meirchio. Rokurou says "it was more like...taken over."

Rokurou and Eizen give them info about other places, mentioning that daemons are running amuck more often.

The man wants to explore Eastgand a bit more and settle a town there. The man wants to build around Lake Perniya. Eizen agrees with the location.

Then the guy pines for love. Eizen tells him not to bother about that, and points out the three women giving him "icy glares."

**Eizen:** "**Speak not of dreams. Become them.**"

More talk about love...

**Rokurou:** "A long time ago, I read that the secret to finding love is not to fall for someone, but to make someone fall for you."

Oh my god, these guys...

From our expedition, we find some "Terror Island Eyewitness Info." Hmmm...

**Skit:** Laphicet's beaming excitedly about the vast coverage of our expedition map...

Eleanor and Velvet smile too.

Laphicet points out to Velvet that she had her "can't help but smile" moments too.

Eleanor and Velvet talk about their satisfaction of cleaning everything...

**Laphicet:** "Could you not compare this to doing chores?"

**Eizen:** "The scouting vessel just contacted us. They say they've found Terror Island." Oooh...

It's a moving island! Is it a turtle?

**Eizen:** "They say it absorbs power from all existence."

Velvet thinks it has something to do with Innominat.

<a name="4"></a>

---

Outside, another **skit** plays about Theodora. Laphicet confirms what I said earlier: Theodora's the dragon at Aldina Plains...

Velvet thinks so too.

Poor Theodora...

Rokurou thinks it's impossible for her to turn back...

Eleanor's considering mercy killing too...but doesn't want Zaveid to see it, and decides that Eizen should talk with him. Oh boy...

Eizen knows that's not possible.

Laphicet wishes he could master his Silver Flame powers...

From a girl, we learn that there around 436 steps in Taliesin...

<a name="5"></a>

---

We speak to a Katz looking out by the cliffs.

**Katz:** "Your attention, please, for an important announcement! To comeowmorate all your hard work...I'd like to invite you to come to Katz Korner!"<br/>
**Laphicet:** "...awesome!"

Eizen's also interested since no one's ever been to Katz Korner. Eleanor also wants to go too.

**Velvet:** "Denied. It's a waste of our time."<br/>
**Magilou:** "Oh, come on, Velvet! Quit being such a killjoy! Katz Korner is like an exclusive members-only club! Nobody [...] would turn down an invitation!"

Katz mentions this as an "op-purr-tunity."

Rokurou wants to see it too.

**Velvet:** "I can't believe this... you guys are starting to sound more casual than the Katz now!"

The invitation's open for us to go...

But I hold that thought and head to the port.

Looks like the people are now losing their reliance on the Abbey, and are starting to rely on themselves more.

Even they're now questioning the Shepherd after all the malakhim were freed.

Someone asks about the Lord of Calamity. Velvet doesn't mind it, as she brings up her brother's inquisitive nature.

The person has dreams to be a pirate, and vows to take care of the Lord of Calamity, and to "protect his sister."

Velvet gives him advice, saying "the Lord of Calamity is really tough!" The dramatic irony is written so clearly here...

**Velvet:** "If you want to become stronger, you'll need to get your own compass first...I know a boy who found a compass. With it, he traveled the world and got really strong."

Benwick points out the return of the cats in Taliesin.