---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 119: Laphicet and the Silver Flame"
date: 2018-04-05 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-02-27 12:01:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Innominat stabs the compass!

**Phi:** "She isn't...***yours!!***"

Oh my god, ***did he just punch an Empyrean!?***

**Phi:** "**Velvet is Velvet!**"

**Innominat:** "And you're just a fragment of me!"

Phi warns the party of Innominat's attack!

Innominat fires a beam of light, which hits the Hellkite! 

Uh oh...

The Hellkite breathes his flames at Innominat!

**Eleanor:** (to Phi) "So that was your strategy."

Magilou's not happy about that surprise attack!

Innominat gets up and uses his power to turn Laphicet into a dragon! **No!!!**

But...**it didn't work!** Green flames surround Phi!

Innominat's now screaming...

**Velvet:** "**The malevolence burned away?**"

Phi faints. Eizen catches him.

Now the crew takes off! Rokurou's carrying Zaveid...

And we get our rewards...

<a name="2"></a>

---

Innominat sees the ship sail away...

The Shepherd comes, so does Melchior and his bodyguard.

**Shepherd:** "They got away."<br/>
**Innominat:** "**A silver flame**...A strange arte that malak used."<br/>
**Shepherd:** "Did you forget that you have **the power to digest malevolence?**" Whoops...since Phi's a part of Innominat, even a god like him did not see that coming...

The Shepherd still sees malakhim as objects, labeling Phi as an "it"...he does not even see him as the reincarnation of his unborn son... :frowning2:

The Shepherd judges Velvet for how far she's gone, yet he never bothers to look at how far gone he is too...or maybe he knows...

Innominat blames the Hellkite for his mistake.

**Shepherd:** "So long as you learn from your mistake, such a ruse won't work a second time." One of his maxims, I'm guessing.

**Shepherd:** "After all, malakhim are mere servants of the Empyreans. As long as we stay wary, they pose no threat to our ideal world."

Melchior brings good news for Innominat, bad news for us. So only the four Empyreans can only stand a chance against Innominat now...

Now Innominat's next plan is to take care of them too.

**Shepherd:** "Not now. We need to make preparations for the Ceremony of Suppression." Probably that's going to take place on another Scarlet Night. From the flashbacks, Laphi mentions the next Scarlet Night being three years away...now that it's three years later, it's coming...

Melchior assigns his daemon bodyguard to pursue the crew.

**Melchior:** "Even after he succumbed to daemonhood, he withstood my illusions for [a week]. Even now, he resists...However, he used to be known as the most fearsome pirate in all the seas. His strength is equal to that of a legate's." I knew it!

Melchior orders Aifread to take Velvet alive.

But the Shepherd and Innominat order Laphicet's death "before [Velvet]'s eyes." Oh god...

Aifread's still trying to break free...

Innominat floats up to his level. Oh my god...**what is he doing to him?**

The Shepherd walks away.