---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 145: Normin Island and Katz Korner, Dreamlike Paradise"
date: 2018-04-30 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-05-01 13:00:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

One blue Normin in a pot's been "lazing around" for "about a 1000 years."

Another's hoping for a pact with someone nicer, instead of someone like Magilou. He does not mention her by name though.

Laphicet tells him to prep for disappointment.

A brown Normin sitting on a rice cake mentions he saw Zaveid, mentioning he saved a "[child] malak...from a daemon".

Zaveid even took his coat off for him!

**Normin:** "He laughed and said, 'I don't mind the cold! Besides, what's a little cold wind to Zaveid the Whirlwind?'"

The normin also lets on that Zaveid likes going shirtless.

Normin Island's west of Islegand...

We board the *Van Eltia* to head for Taliesin to visit Katz Korner...

We get warped there!

Laphicet's amazed at the place!

Above, the sky looks like it's about to set, with twirling giant stars above, like a funhouse's garden.

**Magilou:** "What an adorable little hamlet...you can feel your motivation to get stuff done just floating away."

Eleanor's awed by the Katz population.

Velvet's allergic to something...

**Rokurou:** "Its so peaceful here. Kind of makes me want to sit down for a big feast."<br/>
**Eizen:** "...Is that the Katz Pajamaz? I've heard stories."

Velvet's sneezing incessantly. Poor Velvet...she's allergic to cats...

Welcome to **Katz Korner, Dreamlike Paradise!**

<a name="2"></a>

---

The background music has lots of meowing...

The weapons shop has lots of top notch stuff, mostly **Adamantine** gear!

Velvet's still sneezing...

The Katz Pajamaz club is for people 2000 years and older...

Two Katz are flanking a moving projector...the right one can show us cutscenes, the left one skits...

Four Katz are at a bridge, one of them contemplating about life...

The Katz thank us...

One Katz mentions an Arma Dylan who "passed through" Katz Korner...

We get **Adamant Fragment**s and **Elixir**s here...

Katz Korner is southeast on the world map...

As we make our way back to the entrance, Velvet's now hiccuping...

There's a Katz who has sliding puzzles...

There's 40 other skits, 125 sub skits, and 292 main skits total in this game...my god that's a lot of skits!

<a name="3"></a>

---

There are two Katz on opposite sides of a small sandpit with a referee announcing that it's "The Paw Pro Wrestling BNE World Catnip Cup Tabbyweight Title" bout! BNE must stand for Bandai Namco Entertainment...

Laphicet asks if there's a "countdown" in a match like this...once someone "purrs" three times, they're out!

I didn't know Laphicet had some knowledge in wrestling...

In paw-pro wrestling, nibbling, and back-of-the-neck grabs are illegal...and Laphicet wants to wrestle!

A Katz mentions an Agarte cup. Hmmm, n abq gb <a href="http://aselia.wikia.com/wiki/Agarte_Lindblum">Ntnegr Yvaqoyhz</a>?

One Katz hiding behind a cardboard bush mentions they're from "a hamlet in...Mrrowgoya"...

Mrrowgoya dialect is hard to understand. Eleanor's getting curious about Katz dialects...

But the word "father is father".

Eleanor apologizes for insulting the Katz for pointing out the word "father" is the same...

One Katz before a bridge wants to search for treasure. Laphicet calls her a "cat burglar" but the Katz calls him out for his piracy and their romanticization of the pirate life.

The Katz calls her ship "*Van Meowtia* of [Her] Youth."

And we leave the Katz Korner!