---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 125: Selfish World Saving"
date: 2018-04-07 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-03 23:02:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Alright, down to the sewers we go!

Rokurou's mentions that those angels, the Minions of Prophecy, are malakhim...

Eleanor knows they are Innominat's "free will" police, so he's doing all he can to round up any people with free will left.

The way Magilou puts in the word "process" for people who refuse to conform to Innominat's domain is just plain chilling...

Another **skit:** Phi's worried about Tabatha. But she's very strong-willed beneath that nice elderly demeanor. She's going to be fine, says Magilou, as she might find a good hiding place quick and easy.

Rokurou thinks that Tabatha's elderly act is also a ruse...he's joking. Rokurou, you tease...

**Velvet:** (to Phi) "Tabatha's been living in society's shadows since before you were born. If she heard you were worried, she'd laugh and say you're probably wasting your time." 

We climb up to the villa, since it's already daytime, the lights are on in the library...

I read some of the books here, since I forgot to do that last time I was here. It turns out it's not only exorcists who can have malakhim...

There's 3000 orderlies, 100 praetors (99 now that Eleanor's out), and 3 living legates: the Shepherd is legate III, Melchior legate II, and Shigure legate V. How the heck did Shigure ever become part of the Abbey and a legate in three years?

I'm betting Claudin is legate I.

Midgand Kingdom is the continent the game takes place at.

I read another book about resonance from a secret bookcase.

Now I read about the three in game rare diseases: **12 Year Sickness**, **daemonblight** (or malevolence), and **Black Crystal Disease**.

After reading about the population of Midgand, I leave the library.

Now into the Worship Hall...and down to the chamber where Griffin used to be...

<a name="2"></a>

---

The Prince and the girl are in the middle of a circle, in the process of losing their wills to Innominat, with the Minions of Prophecy watching...

Phi calls it a "channeling circle".

Now for the Minions of Prophecy...

**Magilou:** "With an entrance like this, it's almost like..."<br/>
**Velvet:** "Like we're a bunch of heroes."<br/>
**Magilou:** "Hey, no fair! You were supposed to say 'like what?'"

Velvet eats the circle!

Phi runs to the Prince. He's fine, but a bit "scared out of [his] wits." The girl's mother got executed for stealing food to feed her...oh no! She's now taken in by the domain!

**Eleanor:** "So this is the true face of their 'suppression'."<br/>
**Prince:** "This is the ideal world sought by Shepherd Artorius. As long as malevolence gave rise to daemons, this was the only way. That's why the kingdom of Midgand consented to his plan." Without the consent of the people?!

The Prince is still okay, though. He's not giving into this suppression.

**Eleanor:** "**A world without sadness, but also without joy. A world without hate, but also without love...**"

Rokurou wonders if the entire world's become like Midgand.

Eizen doesn't think so. Some still have their free wills...

Phi senses that Innominat's domain's about to get bigger...

**Magilou:** "Even we might be suppressed if this keeps up, and then it'll be Reason O'Clock all day long."

Phi tells the Prince that Griffin's fine. He smiles, but he looks sad.

**Prince:** "Until now, I thought I was just a tool to serve my country. **But when my feelings were torn from me, I felt myself want something...I understand the true horror of this ideal world now.** I know it's selfish to put this burden on you [Velvet], but I beg you. **Stop all this. Stop Shepherd Artorius.**"<br/>
**Velvet:** "**'A bird that cannot fly is no bird at all.'** And now I say this to you. **People stripped of their feelings can never be truly alive.**"

Phi knows all too well.

**Velvet:** "**We're going to defeat Artorius. We're going to make this world one where we can be ourselves.**"

She smiles.

**Velvet:** "**We're doing it for us. Not for you.**"

Technically, this is a "save the world" kind of quest, but it's stemming from "selfish reasons." It's a nice twist.

<a name="3"></a>

---

The Prince notes Velvet's character development too. So does Tabatha.

**Tabatha:** "**You used to be a sword, wielded by your own hatred. But now you're in control.** You're the one that swings your own blade."<br/>
**Velvet:** "Even I still don't know when to sheathe it."

Phi vows to protect Velvet.

Tabatha compliments Velvet for having a dependable person by her.

**Velvet:** "Our Phi is a gallant soul."

Tabatha's about to tell Eizen about the captain, but that's done with.

**Eizen:** "[The Abbey] stomped all over Aifread's pride to achieve this suppression of theirs. With these hands, I will destroy them."<br/>
**Tabatha:** "Then I'm going to be selfish too, and just as another flawed human being...I will [pray] that you succeed."

Rokurou's small smile, and Magilou's cheeky smile...everyone's smiling!

**Rokurou:** "Well, I'm pumped. Who wants to go cut his way into that throne of theirs?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "We can't just barge in, sword-for-brains. We gotta prepare!"

Let's continue onto Hellawes then!

The Prince reminds us that the ceremony isn't finished until the Scarlet Night...hmmm...

**Eleanor:** "It's time to suppress the suppression!" I can't believe she's saying that...she's come so far...

<a name="4"></a>

---

Near the gate, Rokurou asks Eleanor if she or her fellow exorcists were aware of the suppression. By her reaction, they weren't, or rather, she's trying to refuse that fact. Eizen then asks why they're submitting to the domain's power...

So the exorcists are also being treated like malakhim too.

**Rokurou:** "Exorcists are too hard-headed to be open to much persuasion."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "If I stayed with the Abbey, I might've accepted this world too..." :frowning2:

She thanks Phi for keeping her free will. She casually gave Phi more prayers and blessings with her compliments, making him stronger.

**Velvet:** "Guess it's a good thing I captured you then."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "That's true. I owe you my gratitude as well. Thank you."

Velvet's taken a bit aback by the thanks. Velvet's so happy...aaaahhh!

Another **skit:** Phi asks Magilou about an arte to "awaken malakhim." Other than awakening the other Empyreans, not really.

Phi's tempted to use the Silver Flame.

Magilou thinks it's a risky proposition, as he would be sacrificing himself for it.

Phi "needs more power." Prayers and blessings are good enough.

**Phi:** "I hate what the Abbey is doing. It's just wrong...this world of theirs is without any joy. I just want to do everything I can to stop them..."

There's no arte to awaken malakhim, but Magilou, encourages him, saying that he has "strength."

**Magilou:** "There's no magic that can make it stronger."

Phi's getting more prayers and blessings...

**Magilou:** "What you need is to be ready and determined... and to be brave." When serious advice is coming from the resident troll, it's very good advice.

Then Magilou tells Phi to pay up.

**Magilou:** "What do I look like, a sidewalk [therapist]? I'm a witch!"<br/>
**Phi:** "She always has to be so difficult..."