---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 134: Ex Magillanica"
date: 2018-04-18 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-15 22:55:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Now we're deep into the hot volcano...

**Magilou:** "It's scorching! No, it's torrid! Wait, no, it's **hooooot!**" Lol, oh Magilou, she's such an overactor...

Eleanor tells her to be quiet.

**Laphicet:** "I can feel the power of the earthpulse flowing upward. This is the lifespring."

Eizen notices Melchior's not around. Then his voice echoes.

**Melchior:** "Have you devoured even Shigure, Lord of Calamity?!"

**Melchior:** "But remember! The only exorcists whose souls are worthy of sacrifice are Shigure, Oscar, Teresa, and me!"

He's at the tip of the volcano.

**Melchior:** "With three souls, you can only awaken three Empyreans. That won't be enough to seal Innominat..."

He says the volcano will erupt if Velvet doesn't toss in four souls to awaken the Empyreans...and then he baits them to come to him!

**Melchior:** "**If you seek to awaken all four Empyreans, then come, try and take my soul from me!**"

**Velvet:** "What do you think, Magilou?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "Trap."

<a name="2"></a>

---

Magilou mentions Melchior's a strong ice magician.

Eizen warns about his manipulative nature. Magilou agrees.

Velvet asks about Magilou's "relationship" with Melchior.

Magilou shares her history.

**Magilou:** "Long ago, **I was Magillanica Lou Mayvin, Melchior's foster daughter, and**...***his disciple.***"<br/>
**Eleanor:** "**Magillanica...*the lost legate!***"<br/>
**Magilou:** "So even after ten years, my name still lives on..." No wonder she can tether malakhim.

Rokurou's "impressed" by her former life.

Magilou compares her life to Velvet's life with the Shepherd after the Advent. She wants revenge against him too...

**Magilou:** "The debts owed, and the grudges held...**Velvet, you don't have to believe me. You may never believe me. But...I want to settle my—**"

And Velvet, as usual, don't care.

She's going to finish off Melchior as part of her revenge against the Shepherd, period.

**Magilou:** "Eyup! That's right! And I'm going with you! Like always!"

<a name="3"></a>

---

Another **skit:** Magilou still feels both cold and hot. Mt. Killaraus definitely is the <a href="http://banjokazooie.wikia.com/wiki/Hailfire_Peaks">Hailfire Peaks</a> of the *Tales* series.

**Eleanor:** "Is that still bothering you?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "I heat up quickly and cool down slowly."

**Velvet:** "...if it's both hot and cold, its not scorzing, its freeching, clearly."<br/>
**Magilou:** "That doesn't sound like me at all! Wait, that's not even my point!"

And she goes back to smiling and is stuck on deciding whether it's hot or cold...the rest of these exchanges are funny...

**Rokurou:** "Oh, so what about pineapple in sweet-and-sour pork?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "Gross!"

**Laphicet:** "A sweet omelet?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "A crime against nature!"

**Eleanor:** "Chocolate-covered raisins?"

Magilou doesn't like that either.

**Rokurou:** "Well then, what about peach pie?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "I don't see what you're getting at!"

**Velvet:** "What about yourself?"<br/>
**Magilou:** "...utterly vile."

**Velvet:** (smiles) "Doesn't that make you a fence sitter?"

Magilou really wants Melchior to be taken care of.

**Velvet:** "I hope you learn to like yourself."<br/>
**Magilou:** "Huh! Hmph! Don't try to embarrass me!"