---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 153: Bitter Medicine"
date: 2018-05-04 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-05-04 23:00:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

Back at the port, Benwick tells us something about the sylphyjay he has on his head, and we sail off to Hellawes!

I make it to the front gates and save there, a bit nervous at what will happen next...

Dyle's got more bad news!

Kamoana turned back into a therion again! Medissa lured Kamoana away from town to ensure she didn't cause any havoc...

Dyle tells us they're off at Mt. Killaraus.

Velvet asks Eleanor for her permission to take over as lead. She does so.

Dyle regrets that he was unable to do anything...

We get our reward for taking care of the Boss Troll, who was on the code red list...

We then head up to Mt. Killaraus...

Medissa and Kamoana are not at the entrance. They might be where we either fought Shigure or Melchior...

No, they're inside the first area of the cavern...

Medissa tells Kamoana she can eat her if she's hungry!? Oh dear...

Eleanor goes to her. Laphicet's worried, but Velvet stops him.

Eleanor tells her she has the medicine.

Kamoana won't take it. She knows Eleanor's lying...then Eleanor tries one berry herself!

Kamoana calms down and she takes the berry...she turns back, knowing that Eleanor lied about that. She falls asleep...

Back at the inn, Medissa tells us Kamoana's feeling better, and thanks Eleanor for her help.

**Eleanor:** "I may be weak, but as long as I can stay true to myself and live life as fully as I can, I figure my mom will, maybe understand..."<br/>
**Velvet:** "You already seem pretty strong to me, Eleanor."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "Seriously?!"<br/>
**Velvet:** "It's the parts you don't think about that are the strongest."

Eleanor doesn't get what she's saying.

Medissa talks more about mothers meaning well again. It's almost a week close to Mother's Day by the time I'm writing this...

Laphicet noticed Eleanor blushing after Medissa talked with her. Velvet calls it "girl talk" to Laphicet. Laphicet also blushes and backs away.

Velvet, you teaser...

**Eleanor:** "I may not be a mother, but I think I do understand. When I'm around Laphicet or Kamoana...strong or weak, level headed or a little lost, it doesn't matter...all kids deserve to have a good life."

End of sidequest, and I get a **Color Variant Outfit Set** for Eleanor! The outfit's red, pink, and white...