---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 137: Waking the Empyreans"
date: 2018-04-20 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-16 23:05:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Now a cutscene...

Velvet aims her arm out to the volcano's mouth!

**Velvet:** "***Hey, Empyreans! The Lord of Calamity is here! Wake the hell up!***"

She fires the souls of Oscar, Teresa, Shigure, and Melchior onto the volcano.

Four pillars of light rise up from every corner of the world...

The elemental barriers shrink Innominat's domain, and the eight-headed dragon rises to outer space...

And the dragon disappears, with a big floating fortress in its place!

Meanwhile, in Loegres...the exorcist praetors notice too...

The malakhim take off their masks. They got their free will back!

**Man Malak:** "**The elemental Empyreans have awoken.**"<br/>
**Woman malak:** "**We are free. We will no longer be your tools.**"

Ha! Take that, exorcists! The malakhim disappear...

The exorcists are now in distress.

And we get our rewards for fighting Melchior! Too bad I couldn't unleash Rokurou's second Mystic Arte on Melchior!

<a name="2"></a>

---

It's now morning...

**Velvet:** "You saved us, Magilou. Thanks. If you hadn't thrown Melchior off-balance, we'd all be dead."<br/>
**Magilou:** "I settled my own affairs. Nothing more. But if you want to thank me, I accept gifts. \*sparkles\*" 

Oh, Magilou...

Laphicet asks about the flower.

**Magilou:** "**[Melchior] loved flowers more than anything else. Far more than he did any living human...**" So him stepping on it after meeting Magilou outside of Meirchio was symbolic of his turn to reason...

**Magilou:** "That's all there was to it."

**Velvet:** "**I suppose even a legate can never fully control his heart.**"<br/>
**Magilou:** "Same for a witch. Somethines, living can be [hard]."

Eleanor wonders if the four Empyreans are up from their slumber.

Eizen tells Rokurou to "watch [his] mouth" regarding the Empyreans. He knows they're up. Laphicet's aware of them too.

**Laphicet:** "**Innominat has been pushed out from the earthpulses.**"<br/>
**Magilou:** "**Humanity's resonances will [lessen], and many malakhim will gain their free will.** The exorcists will likely lose a chunk of their forces."

Rokurou asks Eleanor if she can still fight. She apologizes for disappointing them, but "[she] can still see [everyone]."

Awww...

**Velvet:** (to Phi) "You know where he is."<br/>
**Laphicet:** "**His body has left the earthpulses. He's somewhere above the Empyrean's Throne now. [The Shepherd] is with him.**"

But, Innominat's trying to fight back...

**Magilou:** "No time to waste."<br/>
**Velvet:** "**Let's go. It's time to end this.**"