---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 121: Last Will"
date: 2018-04-05 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-02-27 12:03:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

As we head to the inn, Rokurou's lucky Magilou hasn't won her bet against Velvet. I'm thinking the bet's not over...

Now Magilou tells Rokurou and Eizen they owe her money. Eizen decides to make another bet. Rokurou bets against Velvet for 10,000. So does Eizen. But Magilou sees what they're plotting.

Eizen baits her into backing off, but Magilou proceeds into going with that bet. 10,000 that Velvet wins her revenge. Rokurou and Eizen laugh. You guys...

Magilou thinks "calling a witch cute" is "slander".

A townswoman's worried about Shigure. Since he goes out almost shirtless, she worries about him...

In the inn, a man notices that Aifread's pirates are assisting the Lord of Calamity's quest. The man explains Aifread's ambush by Melchior. But he forgets that even without the captain, Aifread's crew is still effective as ever...

We rest up.

<a name="2"></a>

---

Another dream, where Velvet and Seres sit at opposite ends of a table...

Velvet asks Seres if she could "think of Seres as her sister."

Seres shakes her head. It's her memories of being Velvet's sister in a past life that keep her going...

Seres asks a pretty insightful question here...

**Seres:** "What defines a person's identity? I may have her body and her memories but.."<br/>
**Velvet:** "You're right. If your soul has changed, then you're probably not the same person anymore."

Seres even says she shouldn't be labeled as Velvet's sister at all.

She points out what Velvet did was because she asked Velvet to do so.

**Seres:** "I wanted you to have my power. Right after the Advent...Celica's memories returned to me."

She transforms into Celica!

**Celica:** "It was then I understood what exactly it was I had done. Arthur, kind and caring..."<br/>
**Seres:** "Transformed into the cruel Artorius he is now."

Velvet asks why her memories came back. Seres has no clue. But it's for a rare moment.

**Celica:** "Or perhaps this is my punishment for the pain I brought to you all. The stronger I feel my love for Arthur, the less I can forgive Artorius..."<br/>
**Seres:** "My hatred of him has grown so deep I'm not Celica anymore."

So she called on Velvet to fulfill Celica's last will for her: **to finish off the Shepherd.**

**Velvet:** "I know. I will stop him."

**Celica:** "**Forgive me, Velvet. I've pushed everything onto you...My hatred, my determination...**I wanted to apologize one last time... At the end..."

**Velvet:** "I'm glad that I had a chance to know you. I'm glad that once I could be Laphi's sister...and Celica and Arthur's sister as well...I was happy." :frowning2:

<a name="3"></a>

---

Now at night, Velvet is surrounded by a purple aura. Malevolence!

Phi wakes up.

Velvet turns around.

**Velvet:** "It's finally come to this. But of course it did. After all, I chose my revenge over a world of peace. I can't complain if people call me 'The Lord of Calamity.'"

Phi moves closer.

**Phi:** "Velvet, whether you're human, daemon, or Lord of Calamity...it doesn't change that you have beautiful hair."

He pulls out the comb she dropped.

She points out her brother said that exact thing, and bought her that comb.

Phi senses her heartache.

Looks like she's going full throttle with her revenge quest!

**Velvet:** "**I'm going to settle things with the Shepherd and Innominat. Once and for all.** It must be done. For my sake...and for the sake of those I loved."

So will Phi.

**Phi:** "Even without my compass, I'll take the wheel and chart my own course." 

Velvet's now thinking about what will happen to her, the therions, and the malakhim if she takes care of Innominat. No... :frowning2:

The rest of the party's watching them.

<a name="4"></a>

---

Zaveid, up and about, is fired up! He yells at Eizen for not warning him! Rokurou gets in between them...

Zaveid runs off...

Eizen's crew is already on their way, but more news has come up. Rokurou tells us: Aifread's in Endgand, in Lionel Island!

Eizen thinks it's a trap by Melchior's bodyguard daemon, who's probably, according to Eizen, Aifread himself. Eizen does not want to admit that the daemon is him...

Phi and Eleanor are shocked!

Magilou, with a smile on her face, asks Eizen if that is Aifread.

**Eizen:** "I said 'may.'"

Velvet decides to steal a ship!

**Velvet:** "I may be a calamity, but I'm frugal."

More talk about the Prince back at Loegres. They also think Velvet's crew's finished.

**Eizen:** "The Abbey's propaganda at work again, I see..."

That makes things easier.

But one sailor thinks the Lord of Calamity is still alive, from seeing a pirate ship sail away from Titania...

The woman's frightened. The sailor thinks the Abbey better step up their game.

**Velvet:** "Go ahead, talk all you like."

Eizen's cursing at himself for not noticing Aifread earlier at Hexen Isle.

The woman thinks the Lord of Calamity's fate is rather sad...

Another sailor near the docks mentions Abbey navy sailing near Hexen Isle, or the Sea of No Return, keeping Hexen Isle secret.

Looks like tons of rumors about the Sea of No Return south is spreading. One mentions a dragon swallowing a ship whole!

**Magilou:** "The Sea of No Return. What a poetic name."<br/>
**Rokurou:** "For the malakhim taken there, that poem is a tragic one."