---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 140: Sidequest Bonanza"
date: 2018-04-20 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-19 23:45:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

We now have five sidequests to take on!

Since we're in Midgand, I decide to go to Stonebury first! I talk to everyone at port before heading out...

The docksman thanks us for taking him out of his suppression. He gives us a discount for docking!

Now the sailors are giving the exorcists a talking-to! It seems their power's gone now...

But they vow to protect them even without their malakhim...

Now the sailors try to call Eizen. The exorcists try to calm the situation down, and tell them to join them in their daemon fight. If not, the sailors can take their anger on them.

**Rokurou:** "That exorcist has some serious backbone."

We buy some more Mythril equipment from a traveling merchant.

We talk to another merchant near a caravan. He knows us as "Magilou's Debauchery."

**Velvet:** "It's Menagerie." Awww...Velvet's slowly coming around to the idea.

It looks like the merchant's making another Menagerie of his own...so he can cheer everyone up!

Laphicet’s excited!

**Merchant:** "We...are...the **Dark Wings!**"<br/>
**Laphicet:** "Dark wings....Huh." Yes!!! So the Dark Wings for this *Tales* game are now established!

Velvet asks why that name.

The merchant's now reconsidering the name. No, keep it.

"The Dark Smiles" is his next idea.

Magilou asks if he's sure about that.

He thinks of other names...all starting with Dark. Then, with Laphicet's help, the "Peddlers of Joy!"

**Velvet:** "We don't accept solicitations."

The merchant goes with "Dark Wing Menagerie of Comedy" instead. The Dark Wings is better.

**Magilou:** "Here's hoping you have many dark years to come! **Magikazam!**"

<a name="2"></a>

---

The merchant wishes us good luck.

**Laphicet:** (to Magilou) "About that 'magikazam' of yours, you only use that spell when you couldn't care less about what happens, right?"

Velvet points out Magilou's greeting isn't hopeful at all. It's like saying "break a leg" before going on stage, imo.

**Magilou:** "**Magikazam!**"

The merchant also says that too.

**Magilou:** "**Hey, that's trademark infringement!**"

A soldier gives out wise words.

**Soldier:** "Order is twice as important in times of chaos...Fear and anxiety stir people more easily than hope and faith."

The Nectar-free sailor's now decided to drink some old fashioned tea. He decides to start a tea shop. Laphicet suggests adding in baked stuff.

And then the sailor asks for Eleanor's hand. Nope.

At Stonebury, there's a young guy in the marsh wanting to run for mayor, and he's going to name the square after him: Laston Square!

An apprentice wants to make a big bell tower out of stone...Laphicet likes the idea! A farmer tells us the plains have a huge resource of stone they can get in the mountains...I now ship the architect apprentice with the farmer...

Laphicet's very knowledgable on bellmaking. Each metal's going to sound different...

The apprentice decides to marry the farmer once they've finished the tower! The farmer asks if they're being filmed...that sounds anachronistic there.

I go to the inn. The soldiers vow to protect Stonebury!

I activate the geotree here...

We find the **Green Nor Doll** in the middle of a farming patch!

<a name="3"></a>

---

**Magilou:** "At last the nor doll set is complete! Hooray! Goooo us!"

The White Turtlez appears!

Velvet...**persuades** him into giving the crew a discount! Laphicet asks if he has something. He does: a letter.

**Eizen** reads it: "'I will keep this missive short, as my patience with you has expired. Come to the prison island and face your judgment! I will not blame you if you run, but I will consider you a [...] coward of a brother.'" Oh my god...

**Rokurou:** "Uhu, this sounds like a challenge to a fight! Now we're talking my language. Let's get going!"

Velvet thinks it's a taunt.

Eleanor and Laphicet think they need to resolve this matter.

The old man at the bench discovers a way to dilute the poison of the radishbells, using barley wine.

**Rokurou:** "Sounds like snake wine."

Eizen asks for a sip.

**Rokurou:** "Don't tell me I have to wait fifty years for this one too."

The old man tells him it will be ready at the end of summer next year, but for a better taste, four years.

Eizen wants to give the drink to the ship's crew as well. The old man has three barrels (!), but can manage an additional seven. Ten barrels!

Eizen buys for seven of the barrels! The old man is in shock! He tells him to keep one for the town.

I ignore the last two bubbles to head to the Zamahl Grotto and Davahl Forest.

I still can't cross Zamahl Grotto, though. Or Davahl Forest.

<a name="4"></a>

---

Another **skit** inside the inn: Laphicet asks Velvet if rice water can be used to mop the floor to polish the wood. I wouldn't use rice water for anything else but for washing rice. Velvet says that the rice bran can polish wood. Hmmm...

**Velvet:** "Rice water has a lot of uses."

She explains said uses.

Rokurou points out she could fit in with a family or something...

Laphicet asks how she knew about rice water.

Velvet says it's family knowledge. She learned from Celica, who learned from their mother.

Laphicet asks what other stuff Velvet knew from Celica. Mostly cooking.

She mentions rice water could also take out the bitterness from radishes. Along with more stuff about rice water.

Velvet **never** throws away rice water.

Bienfu jumps in, awed by her knowledge of rice.

**Laphicet:** "I think you'll make a pretty good mom one day, Velvet."

***Aside:*** I do remember reading stuff around tumblr where she's nicknamed "daemon mom."

She now goes after Bienfu, mentioning all the uses of the food scraps...

**Laphicet:** "Holy cow, Velvet! You're a treasure trove of knowledge."

Now she's going after the pirates for wasting food...oh boy...

Eizen smirks, saying she's gone too far...

We warp to Yseult.

Two people: a fisherman and a pengyon farmer are still worried that the pengyon are not eating. Then a fisherman points out he caught a Kraken Queen.

**Laphicet:** "**Kraken Queen?!**"

Oh boy...

The shopkeeper's considering selling Magilou figurines instead of Grimoirh dolls now that the Menagerie is getting popular...