---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 127: Up North Again"
date: 2018-04-07 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-03 23:04:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4) \| [**Part 5**](#5) \| [**Part 6**](#6)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Another dream, where Velvet's sitting in the middle of a bed of flowers...

Oscar and Teresa step forward. Velvet knows they're there. They tell her they're there because she devoured them...

Velvet's unapologetic about her actions to take the brother-sister couple to Mt. Killaraus.

Teresa tells her outright that all the things she's done will never be done away with a single apology. That's true. She's left so much chaos in her quest for revenge...but at least she's honest about what she's done.

Teresa acknowledges Velvet's self awareness.

**Oscar:** "Remember this well, Lord of Calamity. **No matter how many times I am reborn, I will act the same.**"<br/>
**Teresa:** "**As will I.**"

Velvet wakes on the head of the *Van Eltia*...

**Velvet:** "**...and I as well.**"

Eleanor comes by.

**Velvet:** "Just dreaming is all. But I know now how deep my sins run."

Eleanor asks about the therions and Phi, namely their connection to Innominat. 

Once Innominat is gone, she thinks they'll vanish. Grim's also aware of this, I'm guessing, from way back at Haria Village.

**Velvet:** "I said it before. Best just to blame all the wickedness of the world on the Lord of Calamity."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "Don't try to shoulder all of this yourself! We exorcists are just as much at fault for letting things come to this."

She tells her to worry about Phi, and she the rest of the therions.

**Velvet:** "I don't know which of us is more stubborn...still, I've got to face the truth. I've got to tell him..."

<a name="2"></a>

---

We arrive at Northgand.

Phi tempts fate regarding the suppression.

One dockworker almost gets affected. His friend shouts at him to wake up.

Eizen orders Benwick not to stray away from Kamoana or Medissa, since they'll "resist [Innominat's] suppression."

Magilou points out Mt. Killaraus is located on the northern part of Northgand. Very north...

Eizen points out about the nearby town **Meirchio**, located at "the foot of the volcano."

Sailing to Meirchio is impossible because of the currents.

Eleanor brings up global cooling.

Phi thinks Innominat, or the lack of elemental Empyreans, might be affecting the weather.

A fisherman's getting affected by the suppression! But he's coming to...then goes back again...

Inside the sanctuary, two praetors mention malakhim getting experimented on with other malakhim...eee...are they talking about fusion? No. But the malak has been locked up in Faldies Ruins. In the same place where Medissa used to be.

**Eizen:** "Using malakhim for their own ends. Is there no line they won't cross?...What I think is necessary...is for me to decide."

Velvet's not too happy with what he's saying.

Phi steps in, noting the malak's being used for data for a new arte...eeee...which could be used against them...

The praetor boasts that they're stronger than daemons.

<a name="3"></a>

---

A priest is also aware about the Ceremony of Suppression, but just that a ceremony will happen. No further details.

The priest is ready for more confession. Eleanor's "present," and confesses to the fact that she relied too much on the Abbey.

**Eleanor:** "In making any decision, I used not my head, or my gut, or my heart, **but instead relied on the Abbey's answers. I lorded my authority over those I thought to be below me, when I didn't even know the truth of how those things actually worked. I was telling other people how to live their lives when I needed to look at my own flaws instead!**"

The priest is in shock. I'm laughing. Go tell him off!

**Eleanor:** "But I won't repent...**to seek forgiveness from the Empyreans would be to repeat those very same mistakes. I will follow my own judgment now, as I strive to make amends for the misdeeds and regrets of my past.**"

Now that's repentance!

The priest now confesses to Eleanor, crying!

Oh no, another fisherman's affected...almost!

Two youths are frustrated by the Abbey unable to catch the Lord of Calamity...

A believer's regretting keeping a rogue in the town.

**Rokurou:** "Rogues always seem to drift into Hellawes, don't they?" I'm laughing a bit when Rokurou said that.

The believer forgot what he said.

**Rokurou:** "We were talking about how nice of a guy you were."

Eleanor tells him not to take it too hard.

Dyle also called the believer a nice guy too.

<a name="4"></a>

---

From a peddler, Meirchio's north of the Faldies Ruins and the **Gaiburk Ice Field**, which is colder than cold. Velvet could take it, but the rest of the crew...

At the tavern we get three new requests, and one of them is that experimental malak, the **Bison Heddin!** There's also the **Spectral Crystal** at Gaiburk, and the **Titan** at Mt. Killaraus.

Rumors are spreading that the bartender is spying for the Abbey. He's more of a tattler for them.

We rest at the inn...

Rokurou's training some more...

Velvet mentions his stance, which is called "Nothingness."

Rokurou laughs and asks if it's "meditative". So Rokurou not only practices to better his fighting skills, but to take his frustrations out, I think...

**Rokurou:** "It brings out all my negative thoughts... my hatred, doubts, ego, anger. I take up my sword to cut myself free of such emotions. At least that's what I used to think. But that's just not possible, is it? Not for anyone...even if I could let go of that part of myself, I'm not sure I'd want to."

So Rokurou's accepted all of his flaws too, huh? All of this to finish off his brother...

Shigure, Velvet, and Rokurou are comfortable with who they are now. The character development from these three is so compelling.

Rokurou's debt to Velvet is still up, even to this point.

**Velvet:** "Well, I look forward to seeing the final results, that's for sure."

<a name="5"></a>

---

Outside, Bienfu and Eleanor complain about the cold, and it's now getting worse there. Poor them...

Magilou's also catching a cold.

Rokurou mentions that he had to train in the mountains too...he's also catching cold!

Velvet's sneezing too.

Phi and Eizen point out there's not much snow in Gaiburk because of Mt. Killaraus. But now that global cooling's coming fast, that's about to change...

Phi mentions hot springs too...oh no...

Everyone's staring at them...

They're not the ones that are sneezing.

Phi can't sneeze...

**Eizen:** "Good grief."

~~Can I call Eizen Charlie Brown now?~~

In Beardsley, Hellawes people are thanking them. The villagers are only doing it just to prove they're not what the Abbey thinks of them.

I destroyed a monster with a Geoboard!

<a name="6"></a>

---

Now in the Faldies Ruins, where I head down to the cells to face the **Bison Heddin!**

That glowing aura...is that the malak?

The malak's strong to everything except wind...

**Magilou:** "Why a cow's head? This is bull!"

We finish off the disembodied head!

**Magilou:** "So, what were they trying to make, an enormous bovine malak? Was that the best the Abbey could think up?" Poor malak.

Eizen is not happy, and rightfully so. Eleanor points out the obvious.

Eizen's only angry that the malak was forced to participate.

**Velvet:** "Sounds like this has gotten you all fired up. Maybe I'm glad we came here."<br/>
**Eizen:** "Oh believe me, I've been fired up for a good long time. Ever since I decided how I wanted to live my life."

We get our reward from the Bloodwing agent and proceed north to Gaiburk!