---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 139: Return to Meirchio and Hellawes"
date: 2018-04-20 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-19 23:40:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4) \| [**Part 5**](#5) \| [**Part 6**](#6) \| [**Part 7**](#7) \| [**Part 8**](#8)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Back at the town, the yaks are bundled up near the cave...

Dyle's happy we're alive!

A Bloodwing agent is here too. Velvet asks about the status of Loegres. Unsure, since the agent was from Hellawes.

But she tells us we're now in Class 4 land...

Every townsperson is now calling for the Lord of Calamity's execution.

Dyle suggests Meirchio as their hideout! Yes!!!

The Bloodwings are also pitching in to make the town a very good hideout!

I play another skit speaking to Dyle. He asks Rokurou about his duel with Shigure.

**Rokurou:** "I killed him."

**Rokurou:** "But I couldn't break Stormhowl."

Dyle wonders why. It seems that Kurogane's found his Stormquell, since Stormhowl did not damage it at all!

**Rokurou:** "I think I just couldn't break Stormhowl because I'm still too inexperienced."

Dyle declares that sword to be Stormquell too!

**Rokurou:** "Do you think Kurogane would agree?"

Dyle calls Kurogane "stubborn" and would probably get to work on something better...

He also advises Rokurou to get stronger too.

**Rokurou:** "By my hand, Kurogane's Stormquell will become even more legendary than Stormhowl ever was."<br/>
**Dyle:** "That's the spirit! Show 'em what we daemons can do!"

<a name="2"></a>

---

From Dyle, Benwick's back on the ship...

We do some long equipment customizations, and shop business.

I get our rewards for beating the Code Reds...

In the inn, a Bloodwing agent tells us he thought the volcano erupted when we woke up the Empyreans!

Even the pirate's still doing his job as innkeeper.

I save before resting. I know a skit's coming up...

Bienfu and Grimoirh have their own "before the final battle" dialogue. 

Bienfu's very unsure.

Grimoirh's focused on the job.

Bienfu feels unappreciated by Magilou. Poor Bienfu...

Grimoirh's eyes widen, telling him "she's not the type to do that sort of thing."

Grim suggests being a spy for the Abbey if he's not happy with being Magilou's malak. Nope.

Grim cuts to the point. Bienfu doesn't know if he's being helpful or not, especially when they're going to take on Innominat this time...

**Grimoirh:** "But you'll still go, won't you?"<br/>
**Bienfu:** "Of course I will! Or my name isn't Normin Breyve!" That's very breyve of him...

**Grimoirh:** "See? You can do this. You've been keeping Magilou safe this whole time. With all the [...] pain she's been through, she's needed someone as [...] tenacious as you. She may talk like she doesn't care, but she wouldn't have tracked you down and renewed [your pact] if she didn't."

Bienfu cries tears of joy.

**Grimoirh:** "That's right. You just trust in old Normin Theruhpist's good advice. It won't steer you wrong..."

Hee...Normin Theruhpist...

There's Kamoana with the dogs, and Griffin behind her...

<a name="3"></a>

---

I use a bottle to warp to Hellawes.

But I go to Beardsley instead. The villagers wonder about Meirchio, though.

Some of the villagers heard or saw the lights from the Empyreans awakening...

One man wonders who's stronger: the Lord of Calamity or the Shepherd?

After countless rounds on the geoboard mini-game (where I win a **Bedhead**), I go to Hellawes.

The townspeople are confused that the exorcists are confused.

The Teresa devotee's not happy Teresa's gone, and wants her back in Hellawes...oh my god...

**Eleanor:** "Teresa won't be coming back." She tells him to be "strong enough to protect her."

The Teresa fan's now an Eleanor fan too. It's the "burning glare."

Inside the bar, a woman spreads rumors to an old man about our exploits in Meirchio.

The old man's resigned to the fact that the Abbey can't be relied upon.

So much dramatic irony. The Lord of Calamity and her pals listen in on this conversation.

The woman curses the Lord of Calamity.

**Magilou:** (to Velvet) "You're quite the popular girl. Why not wave to your fans?"<br/>
**Velvet:** "Yeah. That's a good idea."

A merchant now wants to take the flamestone in Mt. Killaraus all for himself!

In the inn, a family tells about the Lord of Calamity too.

A bard sings about Musiphe, the Empyrean of Flame.

Outside, townspeople are mentioning undersea volcanoes erupting, a tornado in the mountains, and an eight-headed dragon...

An exorcist situated at the sanctuary doors tell us about Shigure and Melchior. I laugh a bit at his prediction.

The citizens of Meirchio inside the sanctuary demand to the priest that they want the Shepherd to come quickly.

<a name="4"></a>

---

A believer's planning to evacuate Hellawes out to sea...

Eleanor suggests going by land too...and the believer points out the malakhim have been freed...

Eleanor tells them to guard the city and call to the Abbey for help just in case...

Eleanor tells them not to lose hope!

She thinks of writing back to her old Abbey friends to help Hellawes.

A girl saw a malak talking and disappeared...

The fishermen tells his son not to be afraid "of some Lord of Calamity!" He decides to catch as much fish as possible for survival.

**Rokurou:** "That is one hot-headed dad."<br/>
**Laphicet:** "Too hot for any daemons to get near, that's for sure."

Looks like everyone's determined to get back up on their feet...

<a name="5"></a>

---

Now to Benwick...

**Benwick:** "Welcome back! I take it you defeated the legates."<br/>
**Velvet:** "...but that still leaves Innominat and the Shepherd."

Benwick gives us something, an apple! A Fortune Apple! For luck!

Laphicet's amazed...

**Rokurou:** "Hmmm...but we're the bad guys, aren't we? Maybe what we need is bad luck instead."<br/>
**Magilou:** "I think the Reaper's got that covered."<br/>
**Benwick:** "Awww, that's just mean."

Velvet juggles with the apple a bit and gives Benwick her thanks.

**Velvet:** "I love apples."<br/>
**Benwick:** "Don't just eat it!"<br/>
**Velvet:** "I couldn't eat it, even if I wanted."

**Velvet:** (thinking) "Wait a moment, that's right. My power to consume is a part of Innominat. If that's true, then..."

She offers Laphicet the apple.

**Laphicet:** "No way. That's a good luck charm."<br/>
**Velvet:** "That it is. One to give you the courage you need to survive."

Benwick asks where we're off to...

**Velvet:** "The Empyrean's Throne."<br/>
**Eizen:** "Sail for Port Zekson!"

Eleanor wonders about what will happen to the suppression now that Innominat's becoming weaker...

Eleanor suggests traveling around the world. Good idea. Laphicet agrees, wanting to meet with the awakened Empyreans.

Eizen doesn't think so, since they might be in random parts around the world...

Rokurou also thinks they might not be on our side either.

Velvet's also thinking about taking up sidequests as well...

**Laphicet:** "Just don't eat him, got it?"<br/>
**Velvet:** "I won't. Don't worry."

<a name="6"></a>

---

A pirate tells Rokurou he found a Class 4 island fit for his sword skills, filled with daemons like Lancelot...

Plus, it was a competition ground for swordspeople...Eizen knows where that place is.

The pirate warns us the place "could be fatal." We've taken down two legates. How fatal is it?

The Armored Quarter's at a gulf southeast of Eastgand.

And the Fiend Quarter's directly east of Mt. Killaraus...

The *Van Eltia* has to circle around Westgand to get there...

I free a Katz from a Box and fight the daemon horde!

I win tons of equipment and a **Mythril Waistcoat!**

Now for the Armored Quarter...

Since the island's in Eastgand, the place looks very autumnal...

Our first wave of Armored daemons are the three golems: **Lava Atlas**, **Red Mist Watcher**, and a **Rock Golem!**

After that wave, we win a **Guandao**, and more weapons, along with a **Haggler's Acerite!**

Now to our main destination: the capital!

<a name="7"></a>

---

Velvet's looking out to the sea...Eleanor approaches her.

**Eleanor:** "So what was it you needed to say to me alone?" Velvet asks where Laphicet is. Sleeping.

Oh, Laphicet, he really wants to help Velvet...and act as tough as Velvet.

**Velvet:** "He's nothing like me. His motivation comes from hope."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "...Hope..."<br/>
**Velvet:** "The wind is nice..." Is she starting to feel the weather again?

**Eleanor:** "**Yes, the world may teem with hardship and sadness, but it's also filled with beauty.** The endless ocean. The islands in the south. Even the frozen tundra, and the mountains that spew fire."<br/>
**Velvet:** "It is. And humans make their home among all that beauty...**this is the world that Laphi always yearned to travel. I finally understand what he saw when he sat looking out over the ocean.**" :')

Velvet asks Eleanor to protect Laphicet if something happens...

**Eleanor:** "What? Is something the matter?"

**Velvet:** "The power possessed by the therions and Innominat is fundamentally the same. I have a theory...no...too rational. A different part of me, something separate from my hatred, wants me to do something." She's talking about Seres, huh?

**Velvet:** "**It wants me to leave this world with hope.**"

Eleanor's realizing it too...

Velvet reminds her about her favor: to keep Laphicet safe.

**Eleanor:** "While I'd love to take advantage of this weakness, I can't." Good. She remembers her oath to Velvet. Velvet almost forgot that.

**Velvet:** "Good thing I kicked your butt after all."

<a name="8"></a>

---

Back to Port Zekson we go...

**Velvet:** "Well, the suppression...is gone."<br/>
**Magilou:** "And in its place, rampaging daemons."<br/>
**Velvet:** "We expected that. Thanks. For everything."

**Eizen:** "Let's go. We've a fight to finish with the Shepherd."

Another **skit: Facing Reality.**

Rokurou and Eizen point out that the daemonblight is still alive and well. Without Innominat and the Abbey, the people are on their own. Eleanor's trying to hold back her realization...

**Eleanor:** "But this is who I am now. It's on me to own up, face my fears, and keep moving forward."

Velvet doesn't mind her company.

**Rokurou:** "You don't have to bear the weight of the world alone though."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "...I'll do what I can."<br/>
**Rokurou:** "You always say that, but then you end up overdoing it, right? If you push yourself to the limit and it's still not enough, there's no shame in relying on others." That lesson Rokurou had to learn himself too.

Eleanor thanks him.

Rokurou teases her by pointing out she's thanking a daemon. She knows.