---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 124: Domain of Absolute Suppression"
date: 2018-04-06 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-02-28 23:57:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4) \| [**Part 5**](#5) \| [**Part 6**](#6) \| [**Part 7**](#7)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

The pirates want some action!

Grim's pointing out the super-ridiculousness of the crew's whole plan, but she finds it "rather thrilling." Once in a lifetime, Grim.

Velvet asks if Benwick's bearing any grudges to the crew.

Benwick's moved on pretty quickly. He's well aware of how the whole fight went, I'm guessing.

**Benwick:** "The first mate fought like the first mate. The captain died like the captain." He's trying to keep their captain's honor. Aifread's crew goes on with or without their captain.

**Benwick:** "We're Aifread's pirates and don't forget it! We're not so pathetic that we need pity from some Lord of Calamity!" Heh.

Another **skit:** Eleanor points out that with Captain Aifread gone, the mood around the ship feels "different."

The remaining pirates are taking it hard, but they do their jobs...

Velvet and Rokurou both agree that they have to press onwards regardless.

**Rokurou:** "Following a creed isn't always pleasant. We must do what we must."

**Phi:** "I won't allow the Abbey to do things like this!"<br/>
**Eleanor:** "Destroying someone like that. Turning them into a puppet. It's [unforgivable]."

Magilou mentions that a heart can be controlled, but never "erased" or destroyed. Aifread went down like the honorable pirate that he is. He definitely **is** too awesome for this game.

Velvet grits her teeth, saying "the heart is eternal."

Now for some Class 4 Zones to take care of...

I make for Hellawes as our next stop!

<a name="2"></a>

---

Velvet's pondering...Kamoana and Phi are chatting, with Eleanor looking on. Eizen sends a sylphjay...

Rokurou tells Kurogane about what happened in his last duel with Shigure.

**Kurogane:** "I see. Orichalcum or not, Stormquell snapped like a twig."<br/>
**Rokurou:** "It was Innominat who did it, but I think Shigure could have done the same."

Kurogane's realizing he needs to make his weapons flexible...

Rokurou encourages Kurogane, saying he's "the greatest swordsman in the world."

Kurogane's a bit surprised that Rokurou trusts him to craft his weapons.

By his poses, Rokurou's a bit impatient, but he continues cheering up Kurogane, since he's the only one "who can craft a blade out of orichalcum."

Rokurou praises Kurogane for his dedication to swordsmithing, lauding him as "a visionary who spent centuries" trying to make a sword to counter Stormquell.

Kurogane's speechless at Rokurou's words...

**Rokurou:** (smiling) "Unless, of course, you've given up on making a sword to surpass Stormhowl?"

Kurogane chuckles, putting his giant armored hand behind where his head used to be.

**Kurogane:** "Does this look like the face of a swordsmith who has given up?"

Rokurou laughs warmly.

Kamoana's showing Magilou, Medissa, and Benwick a patty cake trick...

Now the crew's concerns are mostly on that Suppression Ceremony.

Velvet knows that ceremony is going to be where Innominat will use his full power.

Right now, Innominat has not taken the malevolence of despair from Velvet nor has he taken care of Phi yet. Eizen's worried about the disastrous results when Innominat is at full power.

**Eleanor:** "Humanity will be robbed of their free will."

Magilou imagines up the so-called jubilating headlines about people's free will being sapped from the masses that will be published.

**Magilou:** "And the world is free of malevolence! Hurrah, hurrah!"

Everyone will end up becoming like Laphicet pre-Velvet... :frowning2:

Phi sees something!

<a name="3"></a>

---

Another animated cutscene plays...it's been awhile!

It's Griffin flying!

**Oh my god!**

That golden barrier, or the domain's, spreading again!

All of the people in Loegres have the energy and excitement sapped from out of them...they look completely robbed of life inside...

They now walk in straight lines...

In Port Zekson, sailors prep their fists...

...and the domain spreads, stopping them. It reminds me of the Curtain of Cruelty, but this is more like a Curtain of Soullessness.

Now the domain's reached the *Van Eltia!*

The pirates aren't immune to Innominat's domain...

Magilou says that Innominat isn't at full power and tells Rokurou to "wake [the pirates] up" with a slugging!

Eizen docks the ship at Midgand!

**Benwick:** "I feel like some jerk played tug of war with my brain."<br/>
**Eizen:** "They're trying to strip away your will!"

The port's getting foggy.

Phi's getting worried again.

Oh my god!

The citizens are in single file!

The merchant's not safe from the effects of the domain either! He's almost like what Velvet was back at the earthpulse...

Oh no, he's walking to the edge of the pier! Eleanor runs after him!

No!

Velvet slugs the merchant!

Velvet does not like it when people "have" to die.

<a name="4"></a>

---

**Magilou:** "Those awakened to their own malevolence seek to end their lives. Welcome to [the Shepherd]'s uncompromising world of 'reason.'"

Eizen really doesn't like it when people are robbed of their free will. Eizen's probably going to be the first to break free of Drosselmeyer if he was ever written into one of his stories...

Eleanor's ready to see what the Abbey truly is for herself.

Velvet decides to head to the capital.

**Skit: Suppressed World, Ideal World**

**Eleanor:** "Innominat's suppression...is this the ideal world the Abbey envisions?"

Bienfu also sees the "life" in everyone is gone!

Phi's so sad... :frowning2:

Magilou points out the "logical conclusion" that Melchior reached.

**Eizen:** "What utter rubbish."

Another **skit: Innominat's Expanding Domain**

Bienfu continues being sad and worried about the rest of the world.

**Phi:** "When Innominat's domain expanded, I felt a [...] power suddenly come closer." Oh no...

Magilou points out Innominat's domain has touched nearly all of Midgand.

Eleanor reaches the conclusion that this domain is affecting the whole world...

**Rokurou:** "Innominat created this ideal hell in a single moment. That's the power we're up against." If this is what Rokurou calls "hell"...I would imagine hell being worse than this...

**Eleanor:** "So we few are standing against a truly monumental force."

Velvet tells her she "can turn back" if she wants. But to where, or what?

**Eleanor:** "At least this way, I'll have my own free will. I'd prefer a living damnation to that oblivion."

<a name="5"></a>

---

Up the steps, where we see the populace crowded up in a perfect square.

**Eizen:** "So this is the result of their Ceremony of Suppression."<br/>
**Velvet:** "They've brought their 'peace' to mankind."

Everyone's a living zombie...

One pirate, who's woken up from the domain blames either Innominat or Rokurou for his slight headache...

At least the Katz are immune to the domain...

The townspeople even want to toss pets aside...

I check the menu. The crew's all at level 50!

I also read the parts of the synopsis I forgot to read. 

Eizen and Rokurou are really intimidated by Teresa's cold stare...

Poor Phi...during the events of Titania where we first see Innominat, Velvet's pushing people away...

**Hatred** and **despair** are confirmed to be the types of malevolence that Innominat's missing. Velvet's still got her hatred, but her despair is gone, and Innominat is trying to reawaken that in her...

The illusion in Aball and the deaths of Oscar and Teresa were the events that caused Velvet to slump into despair...

I find out that Innominat did devour her hatred, which is the Chimera we fought and he ate in the earthpulse.

So Velvet's quest of vengeance is all for her now. Not for anyone else, but for her alone...

At the last chapter of the synopsis Magilou can't decide whether Velvet or Innominat's scarier...becoming a logical zombie or having a therion KO one in the face?

<a name="6"></a>

---

The shrewd merchant trying to sell chalices to Innominat is now regretting his decision. He now decides to be a priest...oh my god...

Magilou calls him "pure and shiny."

Velvet calls it "nauseating." Hee..

Even the inn's filled with people who decide to listen to "reason"...

The sailor in the inn who got addicted to Nectar now decides to throw away all of the drinks in the port!

The sailor decides on freedom. Rokurou complains that that should come the morning after.

Even Eizen thinks drinking is a better choice rather than submitting to the domain...that's how bad Innominat's domain is according to him...

The merchant's apologizing for asking Magilou's Menagerie for Velvet's dove impressions...Velvet's not sure whether to be "angry" or "confused."

He asks Velvet to "make [him] disappear forever."

There's even a man about to jump off the bridge to the town! No!

**Rokurou:** "This isn't someone accepting that they'll grow old, this is him refusing to grow old."

Before the gates to Loegres, a dad and his daughter are deciding to abandon their dog...

The daughter threw away her friends' pets too!

Even pets are considered to be like malakhim bound by exorcists...

Flowers are considered "distractions" too...

Even the Prince's admirers have fallen under the domain's effects, saying they should only marry someone in the same class as theirs...

Eleanor's "creeped out" by the way the admirer says these things, though she agrees with what she says.

The stubborn architect's resisting a bit...

**Magilou:** "Even the capital's as silent as death..."<br/>
**Rokurou:** "Innominat's power did all of this. A god among gods."

A woman and her friend are also resisting a bit...

Even the priests are not immune.

Some pockets of resistance are here, but they've been suppressed.

<a name="7"></a>

---

The believers are wanting not only to destroy the fountain, but the decorations on the houses and streets too!

The fundie youth's inside the tavern, with soldiers in tow!

**Youth:** "Taverns shall now only live on in history books."

The merchant there now declares taverns as equal food distribution centers...eeee...

Phi tries to argue with him once again about food as "a part of being alive."

**Phi:** "If you cant enjoy your food, how can you enjoy your life?"

The tavernkeeper's trying to resist the domain, he tells Tabatha and his family to forgive him...

The Bloodwings have also committed suicide in the bedroom upstairs. One agent's scared and pleads for her mother...she's almost breaking free.

**Phi:** "Isn't there anyone who hasn't lost their free will?"

We hear a girl crying.

There's Prince Percival and Tabatha!

Tabatha tells her "not to show" emotion.

And come down three flying angels with large scepters!

Now we fight one angel, or a **Minion of Prophecy!** This must be one of Innominat's malakhim police!

Tabatha's fine, but the Prince and the girl are gone!

She tells us that anyone who kept their free will were taken away to the castle villa.

Phi suggests going through the sewers again.

Rokurou, you smiling daemon, you...