---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 174: Prepare To..."
date: 2018-08-18 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-07-30 23:00:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4) \| [**Part 5**](#5)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

The fused Shepherd is weak against fire and wind, but strong against earth and water...

Wish me luck!

Eizen's taken aback by the Shepherd having that malevolence of despair.

**Rokurou:** "Was he holding it in check this whole time?"<br/>
**Magilou:** (somber) "One misstep, and he would have become a daemon..."

It makes sense, though. After Celica's passing, there was nothing left for him anymore. So, in his mind, the world's gone...

**Eleanor:** "Such is the power of [the Shepherd's] determination."<br/>
**Velvet:** "But also proof of his true nature!"<br/>
**Laphicet:** "We can't lose to him now...we'll never lose to despair!"

This final boss is a tank!!!

Now after tons of pressure, the fused Shepherd unleashes his Mystic Arte: **Right of Rule!**

Lucky Velvet's completely immune to most of the damage the Shepherd's dishing out!

Now a quarter of his health's remaining, and in one arte he used, I blocked all of the damage!

As Eleanor gets KO'd, fitting enough, Velvet strikes the final blow!

The Shepherd praises her growth.

**Shepherd:** "**Let us settle this here and now, Lord of Calamity.**"

---

<a name="2"></a>

This is making me tense up a bit...

**Velvet:** "**Shepherrrrrrrrrd!!!**"

They fight!

**Velvet:** "**I will devour all this hatred!**"

Her sword breaks!

Oh god...

Velvet's about to punch him!

The Shepherd is beginning to lose his nerve.

**Shepherd:** "**Stop struggling!**"

Velvet unleashes her arm...

The Shepherd holds it back with his sword!

**Shepherd:** "Give up...! I will end the world's sadness! **I HAVE to end it!**"

Velvet headbutts him!

**Velvet:** "**Arthur's forgotten maxim!**"

Then she bites his neck! Oh my god!

She pulls out Innominat from the fusion!

She disarms the Shepherd with a spin kick!

**Velvet:** "**Don't despair...** ***NO MATTER WHAT!!!***"

She did it...

---

<a name="3"></a>

**Shepherd:** "**Spoken...like a true hero...**"<br/>
**Velvet:** "**It's what you told me once, long ago.**"<br/>
**Shepherd:** "**On the day... of the Opening...**"

I forgot he said that. It's been eight months...

**Shepherd:** "Velvet...**the Arthur you knew died that day. It was always there, in the back of my mind. 'If only Celica and my son hadn't died that day.'**" He's feeling guilty of what happened to Celica and Laphicet.

**Shepherd:** "**'If only it had been you two [Velvet and Laphi] instead.'**"

There's the charm he made for Celica, hanging on his own sword.

**Velvet:** "I thought the same thing. So many times. If it had been us, then **I know...I know you would have fought to save the world for us.**"<br/>
**Shepherd:** "**It's true...I wanted to save everyone...**"

Tears fall from Velvet...

**Shepherd:** "**...Such a pity.**"

He falls.

**Laphicet:** "**Goodbye.**"<br/>
**Rokurou:** "**It's over.**"

Innominat's at the corner, starving...

**Magilou:** "No, it's not over yet..."

There's another final boss!!!! And he is very hungry...

Oh god, Innominat's getting creepy...his power is unleashed!

---

<a name="4"></a>

**Eleanor:** "His power is running wild!"

**Rokurou:** "No one is keeping his power in check anymore! This is bad..."

Eizen runs to Innominat!

**Velvet:** "**Wait! I'll do it.**"

**Innominat:** "I endured it all...! Even though I was scared! Even though it hurt!"

She hugs him.

**Velvet:** "**I know.**"

He, or Laphi, cries, talking about his medicine, and not eating for the whole day...

**Laphi/Innominat:** "I tried so hard... **Why won't you give me this!?** ***I hate you! I hate you, Velvet!***"<br/>
**Velvet:** "**Laphicet... you tried really hard. But you don't have to fight anymore.**"

He starts to devour her.

**Velvet:** "**It's time for us to rest, Laphi.**"

She pulls out her arm and eats him...

**Innominat:** "Vel...vet..."

They're devouring each other...

**Magilou:** "So that's it... **Velvet will let Innominat devour her forever, with her forever devouring him in return. She will seal him while keeping him alive. An infinite contradiction, a perpetual cycle of destruction.**"<br/>
**Laphicet:** "Velvet, you can't!"

**Velvet:** "You and I are part of Innominat, Phi. If he dies, both of us will die too. I dug my own grave. But...but you..."

Laphicet runs to her.

---

<a name="5"></a>

**Laphicet:** "I don't care about myself! I'm not scared of dying, as long as I'm with you!"

She tosses him the fortune apple.

**Velvet:** "Good. Then die."

I'm laughing a bit since that exchange <a href="https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/then-perish">reminded me of a certain meme</a>.

**Velvet:** "But only after eating. Living. Doing everything you want to in life."

Velvet chuckles a bit.

**Velvet:** "**I really am horrible, aren't I?**" At least you're honest about yourself, Velvet.

**Velvet:** "**But despite all that, you still saved me. With your unwavering kindness and strength.**"<br/>
**Laphicet:** "I didn't do anything... Velvet, you were the one who—"<br/>
**Velvet:** "**You must have seen it during our travels. Humans spend their lives in constant struggle... that's why they end up making so many mistakes. Even my poor brother.**" She looks at the Shepherd when she said that.

**Velvet:** "**That's why I'm asking this of you...Please, live.** I was the cause of so much chaos and destruction...**help the world I ruined. Help people like me. Help the weak.** ***This is... my last, selfish request.***"

That's the opposite of selfishness, that "selfish" wish is. Laphicet cries foul.

**Velvet:** "**I'm truly... sorry...**"

Laphicet eats the apple, and forgives her!

**Laphicet:** "Velvet, ***I love you!***" Oh my god...<br/>
**Velvet:** "Thank you...I...I love you too, Phi..."

They're gone...