---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 136: Melchior Unleashed"
date: 2018-04-20 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-16 23:00:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

We're outside at the mountain's summit now...

And there's the villain of the hour!

I look down at the fiery volcano below...

So we're going to put the Empyreans down there?

I breathe deeply before facing him.

**Melchior:** "The four elemental Empyreans are the beings that maintain the balance and harmony between earth, water, wind, and fire. **Have you even stopped to think about why they sleep? About what waking them will do to the world's order?**"<br/>
**Velvet:** "**Not really. I don't much care.**"

That's definitely Velvet. She don't care.

He blames the party for the Empyreans' slumber.

**Melchior:** "**The Empyreans derive their power, and that of their blessings, from the prayers of the pure at heart.** But humans became corrupted and neglected their prayers. The forgotten Empyreans drifted into slumber."<br/>
**Laphicet:** "Human prayers are the source of their power? Just like the malakhim!"<br/>
**Rokurou:** (not having it) "**Are you trying to say Innominat 'blesses' someone when he eats their soul?!**"<br/>
**Melchior:** "**As the fifth Empyrean, Innominat's purpose is to eat human souls, malevolence and all, and to wipe the slate clean.**"

So Innominat can destroy the world and recreate it anew.

**Melchior:** "When all mankind is once again pure [...] the elemental Empyreans can be safely revived."

Eleanor's realizing what Innominat's plan is.

**Melchior:** "Yes. Civilization will crumble. The spread of malevolence, the cleansing of Innominat...the cycle has repeated countless times over the eons. That is why civilization rises and falls, but if this continues, humanity will never surpass a certain threshold. **Thus, the Abbey will control Innominat's power, so that we may guide humanity *into a new, better era!***"

That's too much power for a human-made organization right there...

<a name="2"></a>

---

Velvet explains that the exorcists brought back fusion "to control Innominat."

**Magilou:** "**And in order to create the** [fusion], **you needed** [...] **Siegfried, didn't you?**"

And as Eizen points out, Aifread's the Abbey's pawn just to get Siegfried.

And Melchior says the old "victory doesn't come without sacrifice" line.

**Melchior:** "**Even I must be made tribute for the sake of our ideal world!**"

He's now fusing!

Eizen charges at him!

Magilou runs off, but not before warning Eizen to stop his attack! 

Melchior vanishes! He's somewhere...

Magilou blocks Melchior's arte!

**Magilou:** "I told you. He's [...] crafty [...]"

Holy heck, Melchior's looking more holier!

**Melchior:** "Hmph...I should have known it wouldn't be that simple."

We now fight!

**Melchior:** "Rebellious fools! **You've fallen so far, Magillanica!**"<br/>
**Magilou:** "**I'm Magillanica no longer! *I am the evil witch, Magilou!***"

<a name="3"></a>

---

Those four orbs around Melchior can cast spells as well...

He has a variety of artes and skills at his disposal!

Plus, his Iron Stance prevents him from getting his spells interrupted for up to 20 hits...

That was close! He was about to cast his Violet Storm!

Now Melchior casts his Mystic Arte: **Absolute Prison!**

After a few KOs and a Gravity Storm, with Melchior unleashing his Mystic Arte again, Velvet's in the fray and she quickly turns the tide!

More spamming of attack and artes on Melchior...and he's finished!

**Melchior:** "I'm not done yet...not here...**not now!!**"

**Melchior:** "...Were I only a **hundred years younger**..." **Oh my god!**

Laphicet and Eleanor are shocked by the revelation like me! This legate's been living longer than a **century!**

**Magilou:** "**He's used an oath to add years to his life. Centuries, even.**"<br/>
**Velvet:** "Is that what you call rational?"

**Melchior:** "**I've said the same thing thousands of times. If it were my choice, I'd have let myself die naturally long ago. But did he not say... 'Man can turn reason into disorder, but also can we surpass it. Our true power is in transcending the possible to acheive the ideal.'**"<br/>
**Magilou:** "So were the words of the exorcist Claudin..."

I'm thinking that Claudin also used the same arte that Melchior used to prolong his life. If the Shepherd was his student, then that makes sense for Claudin to be living as long as he has...

**Velvet:** "**They were foolish.**"<br/>
**Melchior:** "...Think what you will. **I'll show you the truth of his words.**"

He puts up a clone of Velvet!

And clones of the entire party!

**Velvet:** "You think illusions will work on us now?!" No, and he knows it.<br/>
**Melchior:** "But it bought me enough time to finish my arte."

Oh my god! He's going to erupt the volcano!

**Melchior:** "**As long as I take the Lord of Calamity with me, I have no regrets. That's because...*I follow reason!***"

Magilou puts up an illusion of her own! A flower!

With that slip-up, Velvet leaps and eats his soul!

Melchior curses Velvet as his final words...

**Melchior:** "**How dare you...insult Claudin's ideals so...**"

**Magilou:** (calmly) "**Hey, master... *Emotions are a real pain, aren't they?***"