---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 120: A Miraculous Escape"
date: 2018-04-05 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-02-27 12:02:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

The crew's back at Port Cadnix!

**Rokurou:** "Well, that made for good training at least! We fought an armatus, an Empyrean, and a dragon! It's a miracle we're still alive!"

Velvet credits Laphicet for saving everybody. Awww...

Phi's still sleeping...

**Magilou:** "A fire that burns away malevolence...that's quite the talent he's got there."

Velvet guesses it might be because his human form was one of the sacrifices for Innominat...

Magilou then complains about losing her bet to Velvet. It's not over yet...Velvet has to beat the Shepherd to win that bet.

**Velvet:** "Awful lot of drama you're making over 100 gald." Ikr?

Then Magilou makes up a rhyme.

Rokurou asks for their next move.

**Velvet:** "Nothing's changed. We seal Innominat away. And kill [the Shepherd]."

She's now trying to figure out how to seal Innominat...

Eleanor suggests that looking for the rest of the crew (Grim, Benwick, and the therions) is our next move...

Eleanor doesn't know what to believe anymore, but she knows that the Shepherd's "sacrifice the world" way is not the right way.

**Eleanor:** "Even if I'm wrong, I won't have any regrets."<br/>
**Velvet:** (smiles) "Do you have any idea how frustrating you are?"<br/>
**Eleanor:** "You're one to talk."

Eizen's still mulling over Melchior's daemon bodyguard. He really doesn't want to believe that's his captain...poor Eizen...

Eizen says we need a break. I agree.

Velvet tells Eleanor **(!)** to "look after" Phi. Eleanor tells Velvet to take him to the inn...

Velvet, purple flames surrounding her, pleads with Eleanor to take him.

Goodbye, Compass... :pensive:

**Rokurou:** (to Velvet) "You could at least carry [Phi]. Damn, you're cold."<br/>
**Eleanor:** "No. Quite the opposite." She probably knows she has too much malevolence in her to carry Phi...