---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Tales of Berseria - Part 146: Davahl Forest Revisited"
date: 2018-04-30 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-05-01 13:01:00 -0800
categories: tob tales-of-berseria playthroughs
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

After reading the guide, I realize I could pass through those Red Fumes easily, by finding a Fruit from a tree in that forest...

I pick a Red Fruit from the tree and have my character eat it.

After picking up an Arcane Bottle, we pass through the Red Fumes easily!

Making a bit further, we see Blue Fumes ahead of the monsters here in the east. I check for a Blue Fruit tree nearby and eat the Fruit.

In the next area now, not many monsters around...but there's Yellow Fumes blocking our next area forward.

I head to the west part of the forest, and jump on the steps up to the cliff to pass through the huge boulder barricade.

It's a large area, with **Hornet**s surrounding the landscape...

There's a tree bearing Yellow Fruit at the southwest part of this area.

Going to the northwest tip, past Red Fumes is where the code red for this forest is...

I jump back to the start of the area, and jump up and run west to a Red Fruit tree...

Since the code red area's blocked off by a river, and we haven't activated the geotree for this place yet, I advance through the Red Fumes in the southwest area and pick up any leftover Katz spirits, and open up the nearby Katz Box, winning us a **Right Earring!**

Eating the Yellow Fruit now...

...and passing through the Fumes here...

<a name="2"></a>

---

Now to the east area we go!

Turning a corner, up ahead, we see the geotree for this forest!

Now to face the code red here...

I realize that I forgot to eat the Red Fruit here, and I geoboard around the area, before going back to the barricade, and jumping up to where the tree is...

The code red daemon here is a **Dryad**, who looks a lot like Kamoana in her daemon form!

This daemon's a bit strong since she can cast Freeze Lancer! She's got a wide number of artes she can cast!

After a semi-tough battle, we win a **Hero's Ventite**, which increases the potency of our healing artes for anyone below a certain amount of health!

Now to move forward...

Almost every path forward in the area where we found the geotree is blocked by Fumes...so which fruit to eat to cross through?

After opening the chest nearby, I take the Red Fruit.

Not much to scavenge for here, but I take the treasures, go near where we found the geotree, and eat a Blue Fruit.

We're now at the last area in the forest...

Now what to find here?

I jump up from the east side of the cliff to get to the other side of the boulder barricade...

I eat a Red Fruit here and cross over into an area with plenty of Katz spirits for the taking!

The way to the last part of this area is blocked by Yellow Fumes...

After turning back and eating the Yellow Fruit here, I go on ahead, past the fumes, and take everything in the area, including a **Purity Charm** for Rokurou!

There's supposed to be an event here, but I think I might have missed something...