---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 14: Sidequesting"
date: 2016-02-14 09-0800
publishDate: 2017-10-30 11:30:59 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

I get a few more treasures while exploring the area: a few Gilded Falcons.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9C_t3Zi3Gk0">The music for the desert sounds melancholy-like.</a>

I figure out that the flail can break square rocks. With this new knowledge, I backtrack to break some square rocks around the map.

I head up to another area I wasn't supposed to reach yet, and I get attacked by a leafless tree, or a trent, which took 15 hits from my flail to take care of.

I go back to the village and talk to Septimus, who mentions that power without restraint is nothing but a curse. Poor Nadia...

I save at Jess's house. I'm still a bit confused on using the x or square button to save.

The search for square blocks continues!

The entrance to the coal mine is also caved in by huge boulders, oh well! *\*sighs\**

I go to the upper part of the mine, dash past the three charging spiked balls, and break the small square blocks stacking the switch with the flail and press on said switch.

The gate to the next area opens!

More slimes greet me from the open passage! After taking care of them, the block blocking the stairs upward clears out!

I head upstairs, where an iron gate is blocking my way south and a set of downward stairs east. I go east, where more blue slimes drop like water. And they keep dropping! And dropping! As I take care of a few of them, more drop!

I go back and get the chest from the entrance, which has 30 gilders. Not bad.

I break the square block near the upper entrance of the mine, and head north.

I'm now at a place with trees, more high ledges, and big orc guards, armed with axes. There are several stone pedestals, which state a Crest needs to be put in. Could this be the place where I need to go to face Melzas?

A Diamond Crest, an Agave, a Topaz, a Ruby, a Sapphire, and two more Crests need to be placed, since there are seven Crests to collect. Alundra places the Ruby Crest on top of its stone.

Ah, a Mimic! Those things make me jump!

I go back now and head to the desert.

But not before heading to the area around Tarn's Manor, breaking the square block there and going around the western part until reaching four chests containing 30 gilders each!

I go around the area again and take care of orcs with maces, finding a strange stone pillar.
