---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 18: The Ancient Shrine"
date: 2016-02-15 09-0800
publishDate: 2018-01-11 09:30:30 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

After saving, I press the switch in the east room, which activated a mechanism, and awoke five worms!

After fighting them, the iron bars open, and a door in between the main hall and east room is open.

The sand in the shrine is slowing me down!

There's two statues that shoot out fireballs in the next room! I avoid them and head into a room with two worms and a chest full of herbs.

It turns out that the switch opened all the doors in the main hall.

The west room is blank except for three statue busts on a raised stone floor.

I move to the passage between the west room and main hall.

More spiked balls!

There are also three lever switches in the room as well!

After pulling the levers, the iron bars in the chamber are gone, leading upstairs.

I'm now in a room with mummy giants with sickles for right hands, and four flashing red tiles with different symbols on them: a **star**, a **crescent moon**, a **teardrop**, and a **sun**.

I jump on one of the small platforms taking me up to the ledge where there is a star and a crescent moon stone, and one of those sickle-handed mummy giants.

It takes nearly 10 hits from the flail to take care of the mummy giant.

I carry the star and moon stones and throw them to their tiles.

The tiles now glow green after the stones were set!

I go back down after failing to get to the ledge where the teardrop and sun stones are.

<a name="2"></a>

---

I head upstairs into a chamber with the same puzzle, except this one's more easier to finish, as the stones are near the tiles.

The iron bars on the left of the room open, and I go through, leading into a room with eye tiles, some with pupils, others not so.

The fireball-spewing statues are also here too!

If I step on the open eyes, or the eyes with pupils, the door north closes!

Can't jump here either!

There's also a set of doors to the south of the room which works like the northern ones.

I walk quickly to the northern door. Lucky I can pass through the statues as long as I don't get hit by their fire.

I'm now in another room with the same stone-on-tile puzzle.

The star stone is in front, while the sun stone is hidden off behind the southeast column.

The teardrop and moon stones are on top of different pillars!

I give up since the distance is too great too reach them, and I head for the southern door.

I read the strategy guide again and talk to the skeleton near the throne.

He says that he is the master of this "haven for the purehearted." He says I now have to prove myself again to the gods. That is...rather helpful.

I read the guide again, learning that once a stone is thrown onto the tile, it can't be carried again.

I head back to the three lever room, and go back up the stone-on-tile chamber with the big mummies and make stairs out of the moon and star stones, and jump on them.

I make it to the ledge, where two big sickle mummies are bringing on the hurt again.

After taking care of them, I throw the sun and teardrop stones down to their tiles.

The big platform is now moving!

There's now a statue on the south ledge, which says to us: "**If your determination is as one with the four of us, the path shall be opened swiftly to you.**" He recovers my health after his usual "straight path, light load."

<a name="3"></a>

---

With the knowledge of making stones into steps, I go upstairs and use the sun stone to get the teardrop and moon stones in the chamber north of the fireball-spitting statues.

Another tall statue appears!

After the statue's speech, which was the same as the first one's, I head back to the eye room.

I use the stray barrel to cross to the south passage, where I'm now outside, with more big mummies patrolling the perches.

I see another tall statue as I'm picking up a jar and throwing it on one of the mummies.

After taking care of two more mummy giants with bombs, I head upstairs and see two doorways.

I head to the the left one, where there are worms, sand, and crawlspaces. I make it and head upstairs.

Upstairs is more of the same thing, except with two mummy giants. I burrow to avoid them and get a rock in the middle part of the chamber and throw it across to the other side, as stepping stone for me to cross into a staircase, I head upstairs.

More worms, iron bars, and a lever await at the third floor.

This is **not** my favorite dungeon!

After beating the worms a barrel drops down!

I use it to jump to the lever to hit it, opening the door north, but it could only hold for a limited time!

I place a bomb near the lever instead and move forward upstairs, where I'm greeted by two wasps. After a while, I ignore them and move south, going outside.

<a name="4"></a>

---

I had to climb the left passage tower thrice (three times) since it wasn't until I made it to the top a second time that I noticed a platform that led down to where a chest and statue was! Oh my god!!!

The chest below contains a Gilded Falcon, and the third statues greeted me like the other two. I also notice now that the statue's wand hand moved up a bit.

I now head to the passage on the right. More mummy giants await me! I throw bombs and spare jars in the room instead of the flail just to save time!

The cacti are also hittable, like shrubs.

I'm now upstairs at the space full of sand in the middle, and bubbling sand, probably quicksand, and more worms!

I use a barrel to jump past the quicksand, and make it into the next chamber, outside on the perches.

I jump down and head inside again, to the other side of the first right chamber I entered.

I'm now outside again, closer to the fourth statue in this fricking shrine!

I now go into another passage where there are more spiked balls and two switches that need to be pressed at the same time to open the door at the other end.

There's also a column I need to push to activate the switch. Too bad it's on the other side where the door is!

And all of my recovery items are gone now! I'm almost near wounded so I give up, recover, and save at the entrance hall.