---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 19: Finishing the Ancient Shrine"
date: 2016-02-15 09-0800
publishDate: 2018-10-13 00:00:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

After going back to Lurvy's and buying more recovery items (this shop is more cheaper than Naomi's shop, sorry, Naomi!), I'm back!

Now all I have to do here is to move the column to one of the switches while avoiding the spiked balls.

The door north is now open!

I'm now in the next room, where there are wasps from the ceiling, and more sand. Coarse, rough, irritating, everywhere-getting, movement-slowing sand.

The switch to the next room is on top of one of these stone pillars. I jump on the stone pillar near some solid ground, and make my way to the pillar with the switch. However, these wasps are relentless!

After taking care of the wasps, a barrel drops down!

I throw it down and start my jumping.

I try another idea. I carry the barrel and start leaping onto the pillars, and try to throw it on the switch.

After a few tries because I keep falling from the pillars, it works! A moving platform comes down!

The upper chamber contains four crevices and a lever in the center. I pull the lever switch, where barrels and spiked balls drop down.

On the northwest corner, there is also a big platform.

After pulling the lever a certain number of times, only spiked balls drop down.

I use two of the barrels as jumping stones to get to the next platform.

In this chamber, the stone-on-tile puzzle returns with a vengeance! After a while, a buzzer sounds and the stones crumble!

I go upstairs, where the door there is locked!

Going back down, I manage to get three stones in until the buzzer sounds and the sun stone crumbles. I try again...

I did it, and a chest containing a key is the reward!

I make it to the final statue, where he gives me this message: "Behold what the master of the keep speaks!"

He recovers my health and I go back to the main hall, where the skeleton lies.