---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 24: Opening the Desert Shrine and Visiting Other Places"
date: 2016-02-16 09-0800
publishDate: 2018-10-24 23:00:02 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

I use the Sluice Key and open the shrine's doors.

I read a sign saying that to open the Sluice Gate, both levers need to be pulled at the same time.

I turn back, knowing it's impossible, and I think we might get a friend in-game along to do this.

The guide I read says that at this point, the Riverside Pub and the Centurius XXI house near the beach is open.

I go in to the Riverside Pub, or the bar, as it should be called.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQICnojdhGI">Here's the music for that place.</a>

I talk to one of the pirates who says I shouldn't be here, he even says he shouldn't be here either. So, why are you there then, pirate?

Like this game, roulette is addicting!

I refuse a drink from a pirate and he mentions me "sucking on mama's milk," where he explains his pathetic mama's milk joke!

One's busy drinking to forget how much money he's lost.

This is one wretched hive of scum and villainy indeed!

Everyone wants Alundra to drink milk, wish they had chocolate milk though!

I leave and go in to the Centurius XXI house, where the sign now says, "The Medallion," a curio shop.

Wait, is that...it is! It's Captain Merrick! Who's now already selling stuff after the shipwreck changed his mind about adventuring the high seas.

Everything in this shop is worth 10,000 gilder! The Life Vessel there is also worth 10,000!

Olga's Ring, a Recovery Ring, and a Silver Armlet are also on sale.

Now I wish we had a bigger wallet in the game...

I head to Nava's Cabin, where Nava is trying not to speak in vague half-sentences but does anyway. He mentions a person named Vul.

Thank goodness for these Long Boots! I jump up to a ledge with a chest which has a Strength Tonic, which I have. Why can't I keep at least nine of these? It might break the game, that's probably why.

I continue walking east on the beach until I reach a cave.

This is the Coastal Cave I'm in.

There are now more fire-breathing rock turtles and small square blocks here!

I progress further in the cave, and get a chest of herbs. However, the rest of the way is blocked by lots of rocks and high ledges!

I turn back and head to Jess's to save.