---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 25: The Beginning of the End"
date: 2016-02-17 09-0800
publishDate: 2018-10-25 23:40:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Here I go! I'm now nervous of what the rest of the village thinks of us after Giles's...assumptions!

Bergus and Nestus want to go to the beach since the tide is low.

Talis wants proof of Alundra's "demonry" by asking him to stick out his tongue to see if it's forked.

Beaumont thinks the low tide is not a good sign, and Thyea's well aware of our situation.

Meade thinks that Giles is confused. There was definitely no confusion when said we were cursing the village!

Grandpa Wendell mentions his grandpa saw another shrine under the sea. Now that the tide's low, we can check it out.

Kisha thinks we had nothing to do with what's happening and apologizes for her brother's judgments. Phew!

Naomi also supports us too, and I use a Magic Elixyr, get a new one, and a few herbs.

**Yuri:** "My nephews went foraging for herbs in the desert, and all I got was a lousy t-shirt."

Gustav believes Giles's assumptions. Elene also thinks Alundra is a god of death as well.

Kline does not believe Giles, thank goodness. Though Giles says he received the message that Alundra is the devil from the gods themselves. Hmmm...

Myra, on the other hand, is still pissed and grieving over Naomi's death that she calls Alundra a devil and a murderer. :frowning2:

Bonaire thinks I owe Giles money.

Grandpa Phineas also mentions the low tide.

Lutas doesn't believe Giles, Fein hasn't slept for two days because of the nightmares...

Septimus doesn't believe Giles at all, as expected from him!

Sierra thinks a loved one's betrayal is the most heartbreaking thing ever.

Sybill predicts worse things ahead in the future, as her dreams become more vivid and terrifying...

I leave for the beach.

<a name="2"></a>

---

How strange, the water hasn't receded at all the last time I came here, and I can't cross the ocean.

I go into Nava's Cabin, nothing's changed.

I go back and go to Yustel, who sees a fearsome force staring down from the well of darkness. I ask for more help by offering money and she says someone waits for me in a seaside cave, the cave I went to before. I head back to the Coastal Cave immediately.

After finding a stray rock and throwing it near the square block back in the chamber I got stuck on, I use it as a jumping stone and proceed deeper into the Coastal Cave.