---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 26: The Coastal Cave"
date: 2016-02-17 09-0800
publishDate: 2018-10-26 20:00:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNv9BmLn8Mk">Here's the music for the Coastal Cave.</a>

The next chamber has two moving platforms and a huge chasm below!

I jump on the platforms and make it to the other side, where an orc and a lever await.

I activate the lever, revealing two platforms past another chasm. However, I miss my jump and fall down...

Water, mudmen, and rock turtles await my presence there. The mudmen are easy to beat, but they spit out harmful mud!

There's a locked door north, and a platform in the southeast part of the room. I head back up using that platform.

I eventually make it to the other side, where there are more orcs and a vertical lever switch. I push it down, opening up another passage in the cave.

There are more square blocks in the way though. At the risk of making it to the next passage, I break some of them.

I climb a ladder and hit another lever, revealing three more platforms, and crossing that, another ladder.

A chest awaits for me to take its contents...more herbs!

I fall down the chasm to reset the square blocks.

The vertical lever is still down as I get back! After jumping a few times and taking care of a stubborn orc, I go to the next room.

There's logs and spikes!

After some painful crossings, I get a key from a chest and turn back.

I drop down to the chasm to unlock the door north.

<a name="2"></a>

---

I am now in a chamber with more square blocks. I proceed further into another chamber to see more small square blocks, and spiked balls. After making it past the obstacles to the other end, I see an unfamiliar gray crystal thing. I break the square block underneath it, and hit the crystal with a jar. It now turns gold, probably activating it.

What did that do?

I head back and smash some more square blocks. I've opened up three more tunnels northward.

One of them has a huge spiked ball circling around the area. On top of that pillar is one of those crystal diamond switches. I throw a rock at it to turn it on. It turns red.

I head back and go into the next tunnel, where I'm greeted with square blocks in a pit, and more orcs, or orc-like enemies.

There's a metal pedestal on the floor where three small circles formed into a triangle are embedded on the panel, with a green one as the top circle. This is probably making note of the crystal switches I've been hitting.

I go to the eastern tunnel, where four rock turtles and their fiery breath greet me. After beating them, the third crystal switch drops down!

I throw a rock at it, turning it green!

The metal pedestal is now gone, with a staircase leading down in its place.

I'm now in a room with a platform and high ledges, along with a switch on the side ledge wall surrounding the center ledge.

I press the switch, dropping more rock turtles!

Their fire breath pushes me off the ledge and I start the process again!

After taking care of them, another switch drops down. Pressing that summoned three more enemies, mudmen!

Another press switch is my reward. Pressing that one summons three orcs!

The final switch drops, summoning more orcs, walking around the top of the side wall this time!

A chest finally drops down, and I get **Merman Boots!!!**

Now I can swim in deep water, ho ho ho!

My first swim is to head to a lone dock in the four tunnel chamber, and grab an item in a chest there, which has herbs!

Mudmen noises sound like someone doing a bad croak of a frog mixed with a deep sounding sea lion.

<a name="3"></a>

---

I go back up to the room with the logs, spikes, and the huge lake.

I swim east to a passage where more mudmen greet me on the shallows!

I climb to solid ground and jump to a high ledge where a shrub-like plant that I can carry is. I drop it while trying to swim back though.

I swim further east to see circling spiked balls in the water, and orcs on land.

Another locked door's here!

I see more mudmen in the shallow end of the water and a moving platform forward. I toss a nearby barrel to go to the higher ledge and cross over to the other side.

After a few tries, I make the landing!

The next chamber has two rock turtles and more moving spiked balls on the water.

I jump on the crumbling platforms south to reach a chest with a key inside. I get pushed down again by the rock turtle and land on another chest with 30 gilders.

I use more herbs since I keep losing health so fast! These enemies are getting tougher!

I unlock the door forward and am greeted with another orc! Actually, three, no, four orc-like enemies! I hit one with a jar, and head west.

More spiked balls, both big and small, and rising and falling are also hanging around the ledges. This game has a thing for them, no doubt!

I press a switch, causing the big block to rise on the highest ledge.

The unmoving spiked balls drop everytime I'm in their line of fire!

I hear a click, realizing I didn't make it in time and do the whole course all over again!

I take care of the orcs first out of frustration!

After a few tries, I died, causing me to use up another Wonder Essence!!!

I barely make it!

<a name="4"></a>

---

After crushing two rock turtles and more square blocks, I climb and go in another passage.

Circling steel balls again, with orcs!

After getting past the first one, I break some blocks to pick up a stray barrel in the northwest corner. I use it to jump to the higher ledges while getting past more circling steel balls.

The barrel, however, is not high enough for me to reach the ledge!

I smash the one of the balls' center column, destroying their harmful power, and after another few tries, using them with the barrel as jumping stones.

Another lever is in the middle of a bridge in the next chamber, along with two dark brown rocks set in between a closed passage.

I pull the lever...where four more orcs surround me!

I take care of them, and move on! I read a sign mentioning a prison is west of my location. A vertical lever and another passage further to the right is there as well.

I break more blocks south and head into an old prison chamber, iron bars and all, with a teleporter leading to the save point! I go further, but I'm stopped by a locked door.

I save at this point.