---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 43: The Sanctuary's Secret - Prologue"
date: 2016-03-01 09-0800
publishDate: 2019-07-14 23:50:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

Naomi tells me to stock up, knowing that the end of the curses in the village are nowhere in sight...I do so.

Sierra's now afraid for Sybill, since her strange dreams have almost completely gone, ever since she "returned" home.

I'm assuming Sybill pretty much does whatever she wants too...

Gustav, in his stupor, tells everyone in the village to go to hell.

Elene's still labeling us a "demon," asking if we're going to kill her. She won't kill us, though...

Meia's in Myra's house, Ronan has been the "victim" of a clever deception though, Meia says.

**Meia:** "He is worshipping the very evil from which he believes the gods shall deliver us!"

Myra's now depressed. So that makes it denial, anger, bargaining...she's going to end up joining Nadia soon... :worried:

Phineas has almost forgotten what peace feels like...

Bonaire hasn't dreamed at all since Nadia died...

Alundra tells Lutas that he is the next to die, according to Sybill's dream. He reacts the same way I would if I were given that notice...

Fein says Giles isn't too happy with us, more or less, that he's not too happy with himself.

Rumi thinks that without Alundra, Giles might have perished. The prayers to their gods may have gone unanswered...

Grandpa Wendell knows a devil is afoot!

Kisha's asking why the gods are punishing the villagers with death.

Nestus thinks Alundra might be leaving the village for good, and doesn't want to see him go...

Bergus thinks very highly of us.

Talis says that "[we're] an inspiration to peasants everywhere! Fight the power!"

Mayor Beaumont says that Giles praises us for saving his life, and assumed that we were the cause of the villagers dying. But he also praises us as well.

Thyea hasn't seen Ronan around.

Speaking of Ronan, it's time we paid him a visit...