---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 53: Nirude's Lair, or A Dance with Nirude (Part 2-4)"
date: 2016-03-09 09-0800
publishDate: 2020-08-11 21:00:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="2"></a>

I'm back, I'm ready to play Alundra, and chew bubble gum! And I'm out of bubble gum!

After exiting the portal, I go into the left stone foot of the Nirude statue.

The goblins run away from us! They also say "Dharmaka!" a lot!

I head to the right and collect a chest of herbs near a golem statue!

I use the superbad Power Glove to move the golem statue back at the entrance, and head up.

**Goblin:** "You will not succeed infidel! Behold, even your life seconds are numbered!"

The goblin pulls the vertical lever up, and more of the sludgy bug mudmen drop down! I equip the fire wand, which has a good range, to take care of them with fire!

**Goblin:** "Dharmaka! Try this on for size!"

Those glowing eyed stone heads drop down from the ceiling!

After breaking them, I head upstairs!

I'm now near a big pit with a moving platform north of me, a spiked ball above, and some barrels. I carry a barrel and jump on the static cracked platforms!

I jump over the ledges, going clockwise around the room.

I realize that I needed to get another barrel to jump over the gap to the northeast passage.

Even putting the barrel on one of the cracked platforms breaks them too!

I manage to throw a barrel on the moving platform.

With a few tries, I make my way forward by throwing the barrel on the top ledge, trying to head back on the moving platfrom.

Ah, spiked balls are **really** not my favorite things to see!

<a name="3"></a>

---

I finally manage to get to the next passage, where four goblins, one red, and three blue, are on a high ledge, pulling a switch on the left.

More bug mudmen drop down to the party!

Reinforcements continue to drop!

Well, at least they stopped coming after the fourth group! No wait, there's more of them!!!

I head back to the previous chamber, and go back again, where the four goblins are! They press the switch on the right, opening the staircase up to them. Whoops!

There's a bed of spikes east of me, a moving platform, and a press switch, which drops a barrel!

I head downstairs, where there are five press switches, and five golem statues there. Simple enough...

Except the golems have to be pushed in a certain way (left or right only), and only once!

The block on the top right corner lifts itself up, as I head downstairs!

I'm now at the same room where I first entered Nirude's Lair way back! I jump and grab the two chests, which have herbs and a key.

I push the golem blocking the tunnel in the cave and move forward.

There's a barrel and a press switch opening the tunnel forward. I position the barrel carefully, not too close to the ledge or the switch while still having the barrel press the switch.

There's a chest at the edge of a lake. I open it, and I get a Gilded Falcon!

I head outside, where I'm now at the entrance before the statue's right foot.

I head back inside the lair!

I use the key to open the small gate near the place with the two switches where I got ambushed by those mud monsters!

I'm now outside again, in between the statue's legs...

Boulders block my way upstairs, so I head in the entrance at the foot of the stairs.

The goblins are surprised at my arrival and activate the stone heads that dot the floor of the chamber!

In front of me, I see a save teleporter! I head in, recover, and save!

<a name="4"></a>

---

I now head out and climb the right side, after seeing the left side's ladder is broken!

A track of fireballs block my progress upwards, but after a few hits, I make it to the statue head, and the use the bow to bring it down!

The head usually spits out two fireballs at a time. Using the delay, I take care of the stone head.

I drop back down to the base and use the pillar to get to the left side, and climb to hit the lever switch at the top.

I climb upwards and am now in a room with a big chasm in the south end, and a set of pushable columns.

I push the center column, where it falls into the chasm, breaking it, and I jump down.

I push the golem to get in a tunnel where I see a sign, four press switches, where two are active because golems are on top of them.

I read the sign, where it says the engine room is below this chamber. To activate the engine, the switches have to be pressed: left, right, left, left, right, right.

There are blocks on the opposite ends of the hall.

I head back up and up the stairs in the room with the chasm, where I'm in front of a huge spike bed, moving platforms, which aren't moving, and a sign, which says I need to activate something to proceed: "press each lever once then twice in alternating order..."

The small holes in the wall are probably for goblins only.

I head back to the room with the four press switches, and press all of them to open the passages below.

I take the right staircase down to the sealed off engine room. There are two press switches, one in each side of the engine and two levers below the engine.

I press one of the switches, opening the gate on the opposite end, and closing it quickly!

This puzzle is testing my running reflexes!

I read the guide again, and it told me that the sign above was actually right, but the sign mentioned levers, instead of the press switches I see here...

I press the switches in the order the sign said, activating the engine!

After recovering and saving, I head back up to the spike bed chamber.