---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 57: Riverside Pub Revisited"
date: 2016-03-09 09-0800
publishDate: 2020-08-16 14:10:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

I talk to the barkeep, showing the Pass to him, and he asks the bouncer Chain to open the way in.

I head downstairs where there are three games up for playing, one of them, Monster Shooting makes a nod to the movie *Speed*. Roulette and Slime Busters are the other three. I head to the Slime Busters game at the end of the room.

Get on with it, game clerk, and don't judge someone by the "adrenaline oozing out of their pores!"

I listen to the rules first, it's basically a Slime hitting game, and I have to hit a set number of them per round for 30 seconds.

The anti-cheating PSA on one of the posters sounds pretty deceiving.

I have three rounds at the Slime Mashers, and head into the Monster Shooting gmae.

"Deepest condolences," my ass!

I try my hand at the Wheel of Fortune Roulette after trying thrice at the Slime Mashers again.

I read the rules of Roulette twice before diving in.

I count the number of colors on the "wheel." There's 1/16 chance if I hit black, and 5/16 chance for everything else...

This is the Wheel of Hell...

I manage to win one round at the Wheel, which is 15 gilders.

I go back up to the bar, where the pirate offers Alundra a drink. I accept and it restores my health. The aftereffects are pretty hilarious, though, as Alundra dashes randomly around a chair, eventually hitting the wall, knocking himself out.

Out of wanting to get some more stuff after reading the map for the pub here, I go back into Slime Mashing.

After five rounds of painful Slime Mashing, I win 480 gilders and a Life Vessel!!!

My health is now at 36!!!

After all of that "edgy" fun, I stop here!