---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 58: Ronan's Conspiracy"
date: 2016-03-10 09-0800
publishDate: 2020-08-16 14:15:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

Okay, I'm back and I return to the village after that "visit" with the goblins in the Inspiration Point.

I'm gonna take a bold guess and say that Ronan is Zorgia in disguise...

Though I read the guide a bit too far and accidentally spoiled myself for a certain moment...but I'm almost close to that point.

I'm now at the Sanctuary and Cemetery. Cephas tells Alundra to be careful, as he has only two graves left...

Ronan says that everything about Alundra's own blood rests on his own head...

After scavenging for money in shrubs near the Sanctuary I head to the village.

Nestus and Bergus told us about the fairy pond we went to earlier.

Talis theorizes that if Alundra had not come, the village would end up with lots of death.

The Mayor says that Lutas wants to tell us something, while some of the villagers want to move out.

Wendell says that Ronan was watching Lutas carefully. Rumi says the same thing that Mayor Beaumont said.

**Wendell:** "An idle mind is the devil's workshop!"

Septimus tells a story about Lutas and him near the coal mine, where Ronan saved Lutas's life by shoving him out of the way from a falling boulder...Septimus doesn't think he's evil, but I think otherwise...

Phineas doesn't understand why the young in the village get killed off... :frowning2:

Bonaire doesn't have that much to talk about...

Kline's house is locked... :frowning2: :frowning2:

Yuri mentions that Lurvy is also a blacksmith in addition to being a merchant.

Naomi, quit being adultist! Nestus is not a "little stinker!" He's telling the truth too!

I buy a few herbs from her and leave to go see a few more villagers.

Kisha, sadly, has seen no trace of her brother left, saying that he's become a stranger in their own house... :frowning2:

**Giles:** "I'll show you...damn evil!" He's become a fundamentalist templar...

<a name="2"></a>

---

Meade wants to move away to the capital, but the capital's too scared to let him in because of the curse on the village.

Myra's still her grumpy old self, Meia's not here though.

Sierra wants to be alone...I can see why she wants to...poor her... :frowning2:

Jess says Ronan's saying strange things...

Gustav's pretty short fused even without being on the bottle.

**Elene:** "The gods are here...there...everywhere...inside of you...inside of me...and they will slay me. I thirst for life. Yet beg for death. Please. Please help me. Help me! Help...Alundra." Poor Elene...

I head to Lutas's house. Fein doesn't think Ronan is evil. I now speak to Lutas.

Lutas says he's been the target of many assassinations recently, yet Ronan saved him once. He's asking us if Ronan had something to do with the attempts on his life. I say no even though I know it's not true.

Ronan saved Lutas twice!?

Meia's outside. Alundra jumps in surprise at her spying! Geez, Meia!

Meia thinks Alundra might have the reason why Ronan saved Lutas. She mentions Sybill's final vision to us, in that if Lutas died, he would become the Holy Sword.

So Ronan saved Lutas's life to prevent us from getting the sword, according to Meia. But Meia asks how did Ronan know about that vision?

She asks if Alundra prayed at all. **Oh my god!!!**

Ronan also forced her to do it when she entered the village too, huh? But she refused.

By praying to Melzas, and this was before we knew it, Alundra's mind was now an open book to him! So he knows what we know, which means...oh my god...**we** were the ones who let Melzas kill most of the villagers...**oh my god...**

Meia now wants to go the Sanctuary to destroy the Melzas statue! That was pretty sudden of her to come to that conclusion!

I go to Jess's and save before following her to the Sanctuary.

**Oh my god...**