---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 65: To Murgg Woods"
date: 2016-03-12 09-0800
publishDate: 2020-08-22 23:01:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2) \| [**Part 3**](#3) \| [**Part 4**](#4)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Now it's time to pay a visit to the white monkeys with wolverine claws!

It seems that Kohei has a new phonograph ready, meaning more music! I listen to the music.

Getting into the Murgg Woods is a bit tricky though...it involves jumping through many pillars and cliffs north of the Fire Manor area, near the underground tunnel where the Mimics are!

Noticing that I'm missing a Strength Tonic, I warp to the Cliffs and grab one in a chest near the waterfall.

After warping back and getting more money inside the Mimic Tunnel, I head to the Woods!

<a name="2"></a>

---

I use the Tree Gem to open the gate forward. It explodes in a bunch of green fireworks!

I head west, where a toadstool mushroom awakens! It shoots out spores, which I dodge promptly! I also see two chests hidden by a bunch of trees!

After jumping to a ledge in the east, I push the boulder there downwards, breaking the boulder below that's blocking another entrance to the Woods!

I read the sign there: 

"Murgg Woods<br/>
Beware of Falling Simians!"

I head forward, where there are two Murgg, a huge spiked ball at the edge of the cliff where they're standing, and a chest on a northern ledge.

**Murgg:** "Hrrg! Step back, furless one! The penalty for disobedience is death! Insolent furless one! Prepare to be flattened!"

The Murgg push the spiked ball to our way. It misses big time. Alundra jumps a ledge higher, and the Murgg get a bit frightened. They run away.

I head back down and go in the tunnel there.

This part here was in one of the videos that I watched on YouTube which convinced me to play this game!

There's a press switch down at the chasm, and a chest at a high ledge north of it.

Uh oh! More Murgg! They mock us by saying that humans can't resist touching strange switches! And they call down four mushrooms! Looks like these guys are more savvy than I give them credit for.

I spam the Fire Wand to take care of them, and a pillar drops down!

I head outside, jumping many ledges, then down to a second tunnel east of my location.

A levitating spiked ball is on the left ledge, guarding a switch.

I press the switch, revealing big floating platforms. After dodging spiked balls, the end of the room has a tunnel covered by rubble. A single bomb takes care of that!

The Murgg gather more troops!

The Murgg archers keep hitting me a lot here!

After taking care of them, I head west where at the end of the road, I see a vertical lever. I press that, lowering the block on the higher ledge.

A movable block, however, bars my passage forward on the higher ledge!

There's more rumbling going on!

I cross into another passage, where I see a sturdy wooden bridge.

Oh devil, boulders now drop on the bridge! I watch my timing as I cross carefully!

On the other side, there are three chests, which contain herbs, money, and a Strength Elixyr.

<a name="3"></a>

---

I head back outside. After reading that guide again, I head back near the entrance, and walk west, close to the fence as possible to fetch the first chest that I saw earlier, which contain more herbs.

To get the second one, which is farther west, I may have to exit from that tunnel near it...

I go up east and north, burn a thorny bush and enter in a third tunnel. I'm now at the place where I was, north of the movable block.

Seeing no way to push it, I head out and back into the second tunnel.

I'm stumped!

I head back to the tunnel with the switch on the chasm and make it to the chest, which have only herbs!

More reading of the guide reveals that I have to hit the movable block with the new flail, which I do.

I head into the second tunnel again, and pull the vertical lever, and cross forward!

I pass through three moving spiked balls before finding the exit!

The next chamber has more mushrooms again near rocky ledges below! After taking care of them, the huge block disappears!

Oh no, I see more Murgg eating mushrooms!

They mention Reiner of the Swamplands before starting their attack!

This mushroom here, thank goodness, is pretty harmless.

I cross west past a few bridges and jars. In the south crossing, I see a Murgg running west.

I head east, following the twisting bridges into another passage, where a golem guardian lies!

He's still sleeping so I head back!

I go back to where that Murgg was heading to, which is north of the golem, but it's fenced off! I see a vertical lever and a chest west on the other side of the fence.

I head up north then west, where I see a stray lever at the corner tucked away at the bottom. I fall down to hit it, only to be greeted by more Murgg!

After taking care of them, I hit the lever, raising the block blocking the way forward!

I head down, the golden Murgg waiting below.

<a name="4"></a>

---

**Murgg:** "He dares to enter our secret den! I must report this to Lord Zazan at once! The Stone Golem stands ready. Attack the invader and crush him without mercy!"

Good. I head over to that chamber.

A shake and a rumble and the fight is on!

Seven or eight hits from the flail takes care of the Stone Golem!

I head north, where the chest has a Wonder Essence! I hit the lever near the chest there, destroying the block forward!

I'm now outside, where the Murgg are questioning their captain if he's afraid of us, saying that Lord Melzas said that humans are, or should be, more afraid of them! They're shocked that we beat their golem and run off to tell Zazan!

A Murgg drops a chest on the way out! Lol.

I drop down the cliffside east after burning a few thorns in the way. I go in the tunnel, which leads me to the same area where the three spiked balls and the vertical lever are.

I head out again, down a staircase, where a chest lies...which contains a Life Vessel!!!

I make my way around, getting hit by fiery geysers, and head to the tunnel on the higher ledges. This might be the fifth tunnel I'm going into, I think...

Inside are more Murgg! And some teleporter pads in other unreachable parts of the tunnel!

Outside again, as I open the chest that one of the Murgg dropped...and I get a bow upgrade, a **Willow Bow!!!** :smiley:

I find an arch portal, enter into it, and save my progress.