---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 68: Finishing the Giant Tree Tower"
date: 2016-03-13 09-0800
publishDate: 2020-08-23 23:00:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

After snatching the Elevator Key, I walk out of the cabin and try to go back to find sturdy doors number 2...

I go in the elevator inside the middle cavity of the tree...

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gTqes-3dTdQ">Floor after floor, hope I know what's in store, 'nother floor, then a floor, then a floo-oor!</a> I think that's how the song goes, I think...

I go up to the sturdy door with the elevator key in hand, and it barely fits in the hole! Alundra twists and twists, making the key more bent, and more harder to open the doors!

Time to visit the Keysmith once more!

I find the smith on the east cabin before the base of the tree instead of one of the west cabins from before.

He fixes and straightens the Elevator Key free of charge!

I try again, and it fits like buttah, no, butter. Dammit Working Designs! Anyway, I turn the key...and the doors open!

I'm now on the sixth floor of the tree, where more Murgg come to halt my progress!

I take care of them, and the lock beyond clicks open!

First, I backtrack to the mess hall on the fourth floor and head up on the set of stairs there first!

I'm in the western part of the fifth floor, after taking care of three Murgg archers in a small hall, I'm now in a room with high ledges, and a spiked ball in the west high ledge! There are two switches in this room as well.

I climb the stairs and walk on the wall and press the switch, one reveals a platform to the second switch, which opens the wooden gate!

After heading to another set of stairs down, and walk further south, I'm now in a room with five ledges. As soon as I try to open the cage door, a Murgg drops down on the middle ledge!

After taking care of five Murgg one by one, the door opens outside.

Reading the guide again, I realize that I missed something, so I head back down to the second floor to get a chest located on a high ledge by carrying a barrel, which is at the foot of the stairs to the third floor. Why didn't I see that before!?

I make another mistake by carrying the barrel without noticing the Murgg in the small anteroom before the staircase! As soon as the wooden gate closes behind me, the barrel disappears!

I try again, and I carry the barrel all the way at the base of the ledge.

Inside the chest is...a Wonder Essence!

After saving my progress, I continue my climb to the top of the Giant Tree!

<a name="2"></a>

---

I climb the two sets of ladders outside the sixth floor balcony of the tree, and make it to the top!

The giant baboon Zazan awaits, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79DA5p7FZwg">and the music here is very dramatic</a>!

<strong>Zazan:</strong> "Who...dares to challenge me? What? A mere human boy. You are the sworn enemy of the Murgg..." After threatening us with graphic descriptions of turning us into his food, the battle is on!

I use wind magic to hit him twice! Zazan can use his arms and form a spin attack!

He can also jump, and throw a huge rocky boulder our way!

After hitting him a bit, he sends reinforcements!

There goes Zazan, King of the Murgg!!!

Now a fade to white...and two chests drop! I'm betting those are the two stolen Crests!

The left chest has...the <strong>Agate Crest!</strong>

And the right has...the <strong>Garnet Crest!</strong>

That wasn't too hard a battle, but the reinforcements nearly made it tricky!

I save my progress!

Crests retrieved so far: <strong>Agate</strong> and <strong>Garnet</strong>

Crests placed so far: <strong>Ruby, Sapphire</strong> and <strong>Topaz</strong>

Here are the two maps for this dungeon:<br/>
<a href="http://vgmaps.com/Atlas/PSX/Alundra-TowerOfTheGreatTree.png">Tower of the Giant/Great Tree</a><br/>
<a href="http://vgmaps.com/Atlas/PSX/Alundra-GreatTree.png">Outside the Giant/Great Tree</a>