---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 77: Aftermath"
date: 2016-03-16 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-02-24 12:00:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

<p class="entry-partination" markdown="1">[**Part 1**](#1) \| [**Part 2**](#2)</p>

<a name="1"></a>

Everyone's now circled around in the basement of the Sanctuary...

Meia tells everyone that the basement is now the safest place in the village left.

Gustav doesn't think so. The Murgg can enter from the people's dreams!

Rumi says that Bergus and Nestus are already together, so that plan's failed.

Gustav brings up more worries, what about Melzas himself? Meia shuts him up, saying that he's not the only one who's lost family...

Mayor Beaumont explains that Melzas has taken from the villagers the power to create, and the secret weapon that he offers is the power to control oneself's dreams. And that the people can use this power to aid Alundra in his quest.

The people are now going to combine their dreams into a single, strong power, oh my goodness, this is exciting! It feels like instead of one person Spinning a story, an entire village becomes the story Spinner, or something close to that...

Kisha suggests that the villagers become Dream Warriors of a sort...

Or they will dream up of a strong hero! This is getting good!

But none of them have a picture of who "a strong hero" might be.

They decide to dream about Alundra instead...

Meia, however, stops everyone! She's now weighing the risk of sending Alundra to Melzas, and asks if they anything else to offer than that. The villagers finally have another idea!

They start their dream...

Something forms from the light from their dreams in the middle of the circle...

We get a **Holy Sword!!!**

**Meia:** "**We give you all of our faith...our heart...and our strength...**"

<a name="2"></a>

---

The statue of Melzas in the Sanctuary is finally destroyed!

Mayor Beaumont tells me that Nava may know something about Melzas.

**Thyea:** "**This is your home now, Alundra. We are your friends...your family...**" Thank you. 

Talis calls Alundra a hero instead of a peasant!

Bergus doesn't want us to die...

Nestus is frightened at the thought of us facing Melzas.

Gustav tells us to give Melzas the same kind of pain Elene felt before she died in the attack. Will do, and more...

Naomi mentions Melzas's palace is sunk in the Northern Lake. However, there's only one Crest left to fetch to raise the palace up.

**Yustel:** "**Go now, and engage in the battle of dreams.**"

You are one clever demon, Melzas. I underestimated you when you made those threats back in Tarn's Manor in the beginning of this game. Well, this is the last time that I ever do such a thing!

Ronan's vanished...**good.**

As I head out, Meia comes outside, and she wants to say something to us, or to Alundra.

She has a strange feeling inside her...the feeling that Melzas may be more powerful beyond belief.

Wait a minute...she's in love, isn't she? But, she doesn't say it.

**Meia:** "Be careful, Alundra."

She locks the door to the Sanctuary behind her.

Cephas now comes, knowing that we know that Nava and Cephas are different from the rest of the villagers.

**Cephas:** "**We are Zolist...a race of humans with tremendous lifespans.** We were ordered by the guardians to watch over Melzas. To make sure he would never returin and to stop him if he tried. Today, at last, we follow through on our promise..."

He now says that they will kill Melzas once the palace has risen, and that Nava has the last Crest, the **Diamond Crest!**

I take the remaining items from Naomi's house, and save.

Oh my goodness, what Meia said at the meeting was a lot to take in here...I can't believe it's almost over, though...

After Kline's death, I made a prediction to myself that three more people will die...oh god was I wrong. **Soooo wrong. Ten more people!** Ten died after I made that prediction. **Sybill, Jess, Giles, Phineas, Bonaire, Myra, Sierra, Meade, Grandpa Wendell, and Elene...**

Crests retrieved and placed so far:<br/>
**Ruby, Sapphire, Topaz, Agate, Garnet,** and **Emerald**