---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 84: The Great Hall"
date: 2016-06-13 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-02-28 12:01:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

Okay, now to get inside the Shrine proper!

I use the teleporter in the well to get back to where I left off.

I make to the west entrance of the Shrine...which has a statue, and below that, a golden platform with a circle in the middle with tiny rubies and sapphires on the sides...this is a recovery place!

Now that that's done, time to get in the Shrine!

**Melzas, here we come!**

I'm now inside the Lake Shrine!

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nk29buqodgY">Now the music here sounds a bit melancholy and beautiful at first, like it came somewhere from the distant past or something, but then it swells to something more orchestral, dramatic, and slightly ominous. I pause to listen to it...</a>

There are six huge unlit braziers forming a circle. I head forward.

I'm now at the main hall. At the top, a magic circle is being drawn on a black floor! Melzas appears!

**Melzas:** "**...You are the one Lars termed the Releaser? The guardians have become senile in their old age...Why else would they entrust the Crests to a bumbling child such as yourself? Ah, well. That debate carries real merit now. I have no time to ponder their actions. You have acheived the wonder of gaining my full attention, trivial one. And, now that you have come this far, you shall find that your fate is merely to weep bitterly in the face of defeat!**"

With the palm of his hand, the clock machinery in the Shrine has stopped! Or has time stopped?

I see many different rooms around the Shrine, all freezing up!

We get kicked out from the main hall! The six barriers are now buzzing on their braziers! The doors to the main hall close and lock behind Alundra's KO'd body...

**Melzas, you are one clever ageist and ableist demon! But you still fail because you always underestimate the people that you say are beneath you!**