---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 85: Inside the Shrine (Part 1)"
date: 2016-06-13 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-01 22:00:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

**Note:** This part is going to take about 11 long parts to get through, since this is a hard and huge dungeon.

We get up, and I head up the left staircase.

There are four suits of armor in the way, which I break with the sword! Two of the four suits at both ends of the hall have press switches. I press them.

It seems that they control the wooden gates in their respective hallways...

I head right, while trying to jump, I misjudge the distance, and fall down into the gap...

I'm now at the library at the first floor...

I head back up and take the left hallway, where there's a spring pod on the other side of the crevice. After a few tries throwing the bean at the pod, I head to the east wing, and jump over the crevice.

I make it, and I head left! Nothing to cross there, so I head south, leading me outside to the balcony, where a chest with Magix Elixyr awaits! I have one, so I can't take it.

I go back and head east, and north into another room.

I'm now in the balloon chamber. So all I have to do is to turn all the balloons green to get the chest from the platform...

This is a bit tricky...

Oddly enough, I sometimes hit one balloon, mostly the ones on the right.

This puzzle is very tricky!

The balloons are setup like this:

**R R G<br/>
R G R<br/>
G R G**

I still can't turn them all green...more thinking time...

After a few times, I say screw this and jump down to the library...

I head past a few bookcases and read a prompt, which says: "**At the dinner party, people are seated from the east side...those of highest rank are seated first, and those of lowest rank, last. The king will be seated at the north, and his subjects to the south.**"

With tons of bookcases in the way, I leave to the main hall and head to the western end, where two dinner tables lie prepared...it's a bit creepy, but I shrug that thought off...

The northwest door is shut, so I head to the bottom west door. The tentacle monsters in this room are frozen...

I head west, where more suits of armor are scattered. I break one of them, revealing a palette swapped mummy from the Ancient Shrine.

I break another suit of armor, revealing a barrel, which I try to carry to reach a ledge where a chest lies, but the ledge is too high...

I go back to the dining hall, and hit the lever at the east end of the south table...

The lever is too high for me to hit!

I survey the Shrine again! Nothing fruitful here! 

I go back to the balloon chamber and I realize that I can hit the one or two of the right column of balloons...but I still end up with one red balloon...