---
layout: entry.pug
title: "Alundra - Part 87: Last Armageddon, Take Two (Part 1)"
date: 2016-07-08 09-0800
publishDate: 2021-03-10 22:01:00 -0800
categories: playthroughs alundra
---

Alright, let's see if I can finish Melzas off this time!

It turns out that I accidentally showed a spoiler in one of the images a few weeks ago, since the dragon in that image was not Wilda, it was the black dragon that I faced off earlier. Whoops!

I'm back at Jess's house, and I warp back to the Lake Shrine from the well...

I check my items before heading into the main hall...

Melzas warps from his mystical circle, and with the palm of his hand and a flash of light, causes the hall to shake again...

Opening the floor below us once more, and the dragon again!

I fight the dragon with the same tactics as before...hit him as he lands and try to avoid his attacks...

Now that I know the dragon's tricks from last time, this is going to be slightly easier! But the fight's still long!

I switch between herbs and **Nava's Charm** in any case my health gets low!

Now I pull the Ice Wand out!

I switch back to the Holy Sword since it's a bit more accurate...

Yes, I beat him again!

Now the motivational speeches from the villagers in the Sanctuary...

I get healed again by the villagers and get a new Wonder Essence, not a Life Vessel...

Now let's see if I can take care of Melzas this time...

I have to remember that when he makes copies of himself, it's the one that appears last that is the real one!

Realizing from the guide that he hates fire, I equip the Fire Wand!

This is a one-sided fight already!

(In King Theoden's voice) **Is this it? Is this all you can conjure, Melzas!?**

I get caught by his bright proton beam twice so far though!

I got him! He's now on his knees!

**Melzas:** "**Y...you! How dare you seek to humiliate me in my own sanctuary!**"

**Your** sanctuary!? You don't deserve a sanctuary after what you've done!

**Melzas:** "**For your defiance, you shall drink of the bitter cup of desolation I have prepared, insolent one!**"